quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information called for by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs in the md&amp;a captioned "market risk" and "value at risk" on pages 40 to 41 of the 2002 annual report and made a part hereof. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information called for by this item is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs in the md&amp;a captioned "market risk" and "value at risk" on pages 36 to 37 of the 2003 annual report and made a part hereof. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see the paragraphs captioned "market risk" and "value at risk" in item 7 above. 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating the company's business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the company's business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report on form 10-k. while the company believes it has identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting its business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect the company's business, performance or financial condition in the future. the company's profitability may suffer as a result of competition in its markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in the company's product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, the company may need to reduce the prices for some of its products to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share. such pressures also may restrict the company's ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other cost increases. the company's results of operations will suffer if profit margins decrease, either as a result of a reduction in prices or increased costs, and the company is not able to increase sales volumes to offset those margin decreases. in order to protect existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive environment, the company may also need to increase its spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation. the success of marketing, advertising and new product innovation is subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. as a result, increased expenditures by the company may not maintain or enhance market share and could result in lower profitability. the company must leverage its brand value propositions to compete against lower-priced private label items and offset economic downturns. retailers are increasingly offering private label products that compete with the company's products. the willingness of consumers to purchase the company's products will depend upon the company's ability to offer brand value propositions products providing the right bundle of consumer benefits at the right price. this in turn depends in part on the perception that the company's products are of a higher quality than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between the company's products and store brands narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy the company's products. furthermore, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other economy brands, which could result in a reduction in the volume of sales of the company's higher margin products or a shift in the company's product mix to lower margin offerings. the company's ability to maintain or improve its brand value propositions will impact whether these circumstances will result in decreased market share and profitability of the company. the consolidation of retail customers may put pressures on the company's operating margins and profitability. the company's customers such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the u.s., the european union and other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for the 12 company's products for their private label products. if the company fails to respond to these trends, its volume growth could slow or it may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for its products, any of which would adversely affect its profitability. commodity price increases will increase operating costs and may reduce profitability. the company is a major purchaser of milk, cheese, plastic, nuts, green coffee beans, cocoa, corn products, wheat, rice, pork, poultry, beef, vegetable oil, sugar, other sweeteners and numerous other commodities. commodities such as these often experience price volatility caused by conditions outside of the company's control, including fluctuations in commodities markets, currency fluctuations and changes in governmental agricultural programs. commodity prices impact the company's business directly through the cost of raw materials used to make the company's products (such as cheese), the cost of inputs used to manufacture and ship the company's products (such as oil and energy) and the amount the company pays to produce or purchase packaging for its products (such as cardboard and plastic). for 2005, pre-tax aggregate commodity costs increased by approximately $800 million versus 2004, following an increase of approximately $900 million for 2004 compared with 2003. if, as a result of consumer sensitivity to pricing or otherwise, the company is unable to increase its prices to offset increased commodities costs, the company may experience lower profitability. sales of the company's products are subject to changing consumer preferences, and the company's success depends upon its ability to predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and develop and offer new products rapidly enough to meet those changes. the company's success depends on its ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to those preferences. consumer preferences for food products are ever-changing. for example, recently, consumers have been increasingly focused on health and wellness with respect to the food products they buy. as a result, the company's products have been subject to scrutiny relating to genetically modified organisms and the health implications of obesity and trans-fatty acids. the company has been and will continue to be impacted by publicity concerning the health implications of its products, which could negatively influence consumer perception and acceptance of the company's products and marketing programs. furthermore, if the company does not succeed in offering products that consumers want to buy, the company's sales and market share will decrease, resulting in reduced profitability. a significant challenge for the company is distinguishing among fads, mid-term trends and lasting changes in the company's consumer environment. if the company is unable to accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-lasting, or to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, its sales will decline. in addition, given the variety of backgrounds and identities of consumers in the company's consumer base, the company must offer a sufficient array of products to satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. as such, the company must be successful in developing innovative products across a multitude of product categories. finally, if the company fails to rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, the company could experience reduced demand for its products. the company's foreign operations are subject to additional risks. the company operates its business and markets its products internationally. in 2005 and 2004, 38% of the company's sales were generated in foreign countries. the company's foreign operations are subject to the risks described in this section, as well as risks related to fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. in particular, the company's subsidiaries conduct their businesses in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, their results are translated into u.s. dollars based on average exchange rates 13 prevailing during a reporting period. during times of a strengthening u.s. dollar, the company's reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer u.s. dollars. additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, either of which could adversely affect the company's profitability. the company may not be able to successfully implement its restructuring program. the company's future success and earnings growth depend in part on its ability to make products efficiently. in january 2004, the company announced a three-year global restructuring program designed to improve its cost structure and utilization of assets. in january 2006, the company announced plans to expand its restructuring efforts beyond those originally contemplated. initiatives in the expanded program include further organizational streamlining and facility closures. if the company is unable to successfully implement the restructuring program, it may not be able to fully recognize the estimated cost benefits. conversely, if the implementation of the program has a negative impact on the company's relationships with employees, major customers or vendors, the company's profitability could be adversely affected. the company may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, the company evaluates acquiring other businesses that would strategically fit within the company. if the company is unable to consummate, successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, its financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may, from time to time, divest businesses that are less of a strategic fit within its portfolio or do not meet its growth or profitability targets, and the company's profitability may be impacted by either gains or losses on the sales, or lost operating income from, those businesses. the company may also not be able to divest businesses that are not core businesses or may not be able to do so on terms that are favorable to the company. in addition, the company may be required to incur asset impairment charges related to acquired or divested businesses which may reduce the company's profitability. these potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. the company may experience liabilities or negative effects on its reputation as a result of product recalls, product injuries or other legal claims. the company sells products for human consumption, which involves a number of legal risks. product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering could require the company to recall products. the company may also be subject to liability if its products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations or in the event its products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, the company advertises its products and could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under u.s. federal and state laws as well as foreign laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. a significant product liability or other legal judgment against the company or a widespread product recall may negatively impact the company's profitability. even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or is not merited or fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding the company's products or processes could adversely affect its reputation and brand image. 14 new regulations could adversely affect the company's business. food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign agencies, and new regulations and changes to existing regulations are issued regularly. increased government regulation of the food industry, such as recent requirements regarding the labeling of trans-fat content, could result in increased costs to the company and adversely affect it's profitability. a possible spin-off from altria may cause short-term volatility in the trading volume and market price of the company's common stock. at december 31, 2005, altria held 98.3% of the combined voting power of the company's outstanding capital stock and owned 87.2% of the outstanding shares of the company's capital stock. altria has publicly stated that it is considering a spin-off of the company, which, if it were to occur, would significantly change the profile of the company's stockholders. if a number of the company's new stockholders choose to sell their shares, or if there is a perception that such sales might occur, this may cause short-term volatility in the trading volume and market price of the company's common stock. changes in the company's credit ratings may have a negative impact on the company's financing costs. the company maintains revolving credit facilities that have historically been used to support the issuance of commercial paper. a downgrade in the company's credit ratings, particularly its short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper the company could issue, raise the company's borrowing costs, or both. in addition, the credit ratings of altria have impacted the company's credit ratings in the past and they may do so in the future. volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase the company's pension costs. the projected benefit obligation and assets of the company's defined benefit pension plans as of the end of fiscal 2005 were $10.1 billion and $9.1 billion, respectively. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of the company's pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of these plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of these plans. in addition, any disposition of certain businesses and the terms of those disposition transactions may impact future contributions to the benefit plans and the related net periodic benefit cost. a significant increase in the company's funding requirements could have a negative impact on its results of operations. 15 risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see paragraphs captioned "market risk" and "value at risk" in item 7 above. 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors. the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating the company's business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the company's business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report on form 10-k. while the company believes it has identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting its business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect the company's business, performance or financial condition in the future. the company's profitability may suffer as a result of competition in its markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in the company's product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, the company may need to reduce the prices for some of its products to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share. such pressures also may restrict the company's ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other cost increases. the company's results of operations will suffer if profit margins decrease, either as a result of a reduction in prices or increased costs, and the company is not able to increase sales volumes to offset those margin decreases. in order to protect existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive environment, the company may also need to increase its spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation. the success of marketing, advertising and new product innovation is subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. as a result, increased expenditures by the company may not maintain or enhance market share and could result in lower profitability. the company must leverage its brand value propositions to compete against lower-priced private label items and offset economic downturns. retailers are increasingly offering private label products that compete with the company's products. the willingness of consumers to purchase the company's products will depend upon the company's ability to offer brand value propositions products providing the right bundle of consumer benefits at the right price. this in turn depends in part on the perception that the company's products are of a higher quality than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between the company's products and store brands narrows, or if there is a perception of such a narrowing, consumers may choose not to buy the company's products. furthermore, in periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other economy brands, which could result in a reduction in the volume of sales of the company's higher margin products or a shift in the company's product mix to lower margin offerings. the company's ability to maintain or improve its brand value propositions will impact whether these circumstances will result in decreased market share and profitability of the company. the consolidation of retail customers may put pressures on the company's operating margins and profitability. the company's customers such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the u.s., the european union and other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these customers also may use shelf space currently used for the 13 company's products for their private label products. if the company fails to respond to these trends, its volume growth could slow or it may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for its products, any of which would adversely affect its profitability. commodity price increases will increase operating costs and may reduce profitability. the company is a major purchaser of milk, cheese, plastic, nuts, green coffee beans, cocoa, corn products, wheat, pork, poultry, beef, vegetable oil, sugar, other sweeteners and numerous other commodities. commodities such as these often experience price volatility caused by conditions outside of the company's control, including fluctuations in commodities markets, currency fluctuations and changes in governmental agricultural programs. commodity prices impact the company's business directly through the cost of raw materials used to make the company's products (such as cheese), the cost of inputs used to manufacture and ship the company's products (such as oil and energy) and the amount the company pays to produce or purchase packaging for its products (such as cardboard and plastic). for 2006, the company's commodity costs were approximately $275 million higher than 2005, following an increase of approximately $800 million for 2005 compared with 2004. if, as a result of consumer sensitivity to pricing or otherwise, the company is unable to increase its prices to offset increased cost of commodities, the company may experience lower profitability. sales of the company's products are subject to changing consumer preferences, and the company's success depends upon its ability to predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and develop and offer new products rapidly enough to meet those changes. the company's success depends on its ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to those preferences. consumer preferences for food products are ever-changing. for example, recently, consumers have been increasingly focused on health and wellness with respect to the food products they buy. as a result, the company's products have been subject to scrutiny relating to genetically modified organisms and the health implications of obesity and trans-fatty acids. the company has been and will continue to be impacted by publicity concerning the health implications of its products, which could negatively influence consumer perception and acceptance of the company's products and marketing programs. furthermore, if the company does not succeed in offering products that consumers want to buy, the company's sales and market share will decrease, resulting in reduced profitability. a significant challenge for the company is distinguishing among fads, mid-term trends and lasting changes in the company's consumer environment. if the company is unable to accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-lasting, or to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, its sales will decline. in addition, given the variety of backgrounds and identities of consumers in the company's consumer base, the company must offer a sufficient array of products to satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. as such, the company must be successful in developing innovative products across a multitude of product categories. finally, if the company fails to rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, the company could experience reduced demand for its products. the company's foreign operations are subject to additional risks. the company operates its business and markets its products internationally. in 2006 and 2005, 39% and 38%, respectively, of the company's sales were generated in foreign countries. the company's foreign operations are subject to the risks described in this section, as well as risks related to fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. in particular, the company's subsidiaries conduct their businesses in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, their results are translated into u.s. dollars based on average 14 exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. during times of a strengthening u.s. dollar, the company's reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer u.s. dollars. additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, either of which could adversely affect the company's profitability. the company may not be able to successfully implement its restructuring program. the company's future success and earnings growth depend in part on its ability to make products efficiently. in january 2004, the company announced a three-year restructuring program with the objectives of leveraging the company's global scale, realigning and lowering its cost structure, and optimizing capacity utilization. in january 2006, the company announced plans to expand its restructuring efforts through 2008. if the company is unable to successfully implement the restructuring program, it may not be able to fully recognize the estimated cost benefits. conversely, if the implementation of the program has a negative impact on the company's relationships with employees, major customers or vendors, the company's profitability could be adversely affected. the company may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, the company evaluates acquiring other businesses that would strategically fit within the company. if the company is unable to consummate, successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, its financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may, from time to time, divest businesses that are less of a strategic fit within its portfolio or do not meet its growth or profitability targets, and the company's profitability may be impacted by either gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses. the company may also not be able to divest businesses that are not core businesses or may not be able to do so on terms that are favorable to the company. in addition, the company may be required to incur asset impairment charges related to acquired or divested businesses which may reduce the company's profitability. these potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. the company may experience liabilities or negative effects on its reputation as a result of product recalls, product injuries or other legal claims. the company sells products for human consumption, which involves a number of legal risks. product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering could require the company to recall products. the company may also be subject to liability if its products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations or in the event its products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, the company advertises its products and could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising under u.s. federal and state laws as well as foreign laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. a significant product liability or other legal judgment against the company or a widespread product recall may negatively impact the company's profitability. even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful or is not merited or fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding the company's products or processes could adversely affect its reputation and brand image. new regulations could adversely affect the company's business. food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign agencies, and new regulations and changes to existing regulations are issued regularly. increased 15 government regulation of the food industry, such as recent requirements regarding the labeling of trans-fat content, could result in increased costs to the company and adversely affect its profitability. the kraft spin-off from altria group, inc. may cause short-term volatility in the trading volume and market price of the company's common stock. on january 31, 2007, the altria group, inc. board of directors announced that altria group, inc. plans to spin off all of its remaining interest (89.0%) in the company on a pro rata basis to altria group, inc. stockholders in a tax-free transaction. when the spin-off occurs, it will significantly change the profile of the company's stockholders. if a number of the company's new stockholders choose to sell their shares, or if there is a perception that such sales might occur, this may cause short-term volatility in the trading volume and market price of the company's common stock. changes in the company's credit ratings may have a negative impact on the company's financing costs. the company maintains revolving credit facilities that have historically been used to support the issuance of commercial paper. a downgrade in the company's credit ratings, particularly its short-term debt rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper the company could issue, raise the company's borrowing costs, or both. volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase the company's pension costs. the projected benefit obligation and assets of the company's defined benefit pension plans as of the end of fiscal 2006 were $10.4 billion and $10.5 billion, respectively. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining the net periodic benefit costs of the company's pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can impact the funded status of these plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of these plans. in addition, any disposition of certain businesses and the terms of those disposition transactions may impact future contributions to the benefit plans and the related net periodic benefit cost. a significant increase in the company's funding requirements could have a negative impact on its results of operations. 16 risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. see paragraphs captioned "market risk" and "value at risk" in item 7 above. 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 10 risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully when evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters described in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. we operate in a highly competitive industry and could be adversely affected if we do not effectively execute our strategy and timely respond to pricing and other competitive pressures. the food and snacking industry is highly competitive. our principal competitors include food, snack and beverage companies that operate in multiple geographic areas and numerous local and regional companies. if we do not effectively respond to challenges from our competitors, our business could be adversely affected. competitor and customer pressures require that we timely and effectively respond to new distribution channels and technological developments and may require that we reduce our prices. these pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. failure to effectively and timely assess new or developing trends, technological advancements or changes in distribution methods and set proper pricing or effective trade incentives may negatively impact our operating results, achievement of our strategic and financial goals and our ability to capitalize on new revenue or value-producing opportunities. the rapid emergence of new distribution channels, such as e-commerce, may disrupt our current operations or strategies more quickly than we planned for, create consumer price deflation, alter the buying behavior of consumers or disrupt our retail customer relationships. we may need to increase or reallocate spending on existing and new distribution channels and technologies, marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect or increase revenues, market share and brand significance. these expenditures may not be successful, including those related to our e-commerce and other technology-focused efforts, and might not result in trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, if we reduce prices or our costs increase but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset those changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. 10 table of contents in september 2018, we announced our new strategy, which focuses on accelerating consumer-centric and volume-driven growth, operational excellence driven by cost discipline and continuous operational improvement including in areas like sales execution, and building a winning growth culture with a local first commercial approach. if we do not achieve these objectives, effectively implement our strategy in a way that minimizes disruptions to our business or effectively adjust our culture to this change in strategy, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. maintaining and enhancing our reputation and brand image and health is essential to our business success. our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance the health of our brands' equity, launch our brands in new geographies, expand into new distribution platforms, including e-commerce, and evolve our brands with new product offerings that meet consumer expectations. we seek to strengthen our brands through product renovation, innovation and marketing investments, including consumer-relevant advertising and consumer promotions. failure to effectively address the continuing global focus on well-being, changing consumer acceptance of certain ingredients, nutritional expectations of our products, and the sustainability of our ingredients and our packaging could adversely affect our brands' health. increased attention from the media, shareholders, activists and other stakeholders in these areas as well as on the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image. undue caution or inaction on our part in addressing these challenges and trends could weaken our competitive position. such pressures could also lead to stricter regulations and increased focus on food and snacking marketing practices. increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our labeling, advertising and consumer promotions, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity or regulatory or legal action against us on product quality and safety, where we manufacture our products, antitrust, bribery and corruption, or environmental risks or human and workplace rights across our supply chain could damage our reputation and brand health. such actions could undermine our customers' and shareholders' confidence and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or these matters are immaterial to our operations. our product sponsorship relationships, including those with celebrity spokespersons or group affiliations, could also subject us to negative publicity. in addition, our success in maintaining and enhancing our brand image depends on our ability to anticipate change and adapt to a rapidly changing marketing and media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online, digital and mobile dissemination of marketing and advertising campaigns and the increasing accessibility and speed of dissemination of information. a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions limit how and to whom we market our products. these restrictions may limit our brand renovation, innovation and promotion plans, particularly as social media and the communications environment continue to evolve. negative posts or comments about us or our brands on social media or web sites (whether factual or not) or security breaches related to use of our social media and failure to respond effectively to these posts, comments or activities could damage our reputation and brand image across the various regions in which we operate. in addition, we might fail to invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brands, our marketing efforts might not achieve desired results and we might be required to recognize impairment charges on our brands or related intangible assets or goodwill. furthermore, third parties may sell counterfeit or imitation versions of our products that are inferior or pose safety risks. if consumers confuse these counterfeit products for our products or have a bad experience with the counterfeit brand, they might refrain from purchasing our brands in the future, which could harm our brand image and sales. if we do not successfully maintain and enhance our reputation and brand health, then our brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand and offer new and improved products that meet those changes. consumer preferences for food and snacking products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes, dietary habits, packaging, sales channel and other preferences of consumers around the world and to offer products that appeal to these preferences in the places and ways consumers want to shop. there may be shifts in the relative size of shopping channels in addition to the increasing role of e-commerce for consumers. our success relies upon managing this complexity to bring our products to consumers effectively. moreover, weak economic conditions, recession, equity market volatility or other factors, such as severe weather events, could affect consumer preferences and demand. if we do not offer products that 11 table of contents appeal to consumers or if we misjudge consumer demand for our products, we will not be able to meet our growth targets, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer. we must distinguish between short-term fads and trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences or category trends will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those changing preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied and geographically diverse consumer base, we must be responsive to local consumer needs, including with respect to when and how consumers snack and their desire for premium or value offerings, provide an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences and use data-driven marketing and advertising to reach consumers at the right time with the right message. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories or reach consumers in efficient and effective ways leveraging data and analytics, demand for our products could decrease and our profitability could suffer. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health, environmental and social implications of certain food products and ingredients could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. for example, consumers have increasingly focused on well-being, including reducing sodium and added sugar consumption, as well as the source and authenticity of the foods they consume. contemporizing our brand portfolio by developing more well-being products and refining their ingredient and nutrition profiles of existing products is critical to our growth. in addition, consumer preferences differ by region, and we must monitor and adjust our use of ingredients to respond to these regional preferences. we might be unsuccessful in our efforts to effectively respond to changing consumer preferences and social expectations. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks from operating globally. we are a global company and generated 75.3% of our 2018 net revenues, 75.8% of our 2017 net revenues and 75.6% of our 2016 net revenues outside the united states. we manufacture and market our products in over 150 countries and have operations in more than 80 countries. therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in global operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, including anti-bribery laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or similar restrictions on our sales or key commodities like cocoa, potential changes in u.s. trade programs and trade relations with other countries, or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales or profitability; compliance with antitrust and competition laws, trade laws, data privacy laws, anti-bribery laws, and a variety of other local, national and multinational regulations and laws in multiple regimes; currency devaluations or fluctuations in currency values, including in developing markets such as argentina, brazil, china, mexico, russia, turkey, egypt, nigeria, ukraine and south africa as well as in developed markets such as the united kingdom and other countries within the european union. this includes events like applying highly inflationary accounting as we did for our argentinean subsidiaries beginning in july 2018; changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies such as demonetization in india or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product into various countries or repatriate cash from outside the united states; increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit ratings of governments, particularly in our latin america and amea regions; changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in non-u.s. jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; and design, implementation and use of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base. 12 table of contents in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, travel or immigration restrictions, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties, including inaccuracies in our assumptions about these factors, could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. high unemployment or the slowdown in economic growth in some markets could constrain consumer spending. declining consumer purchasing power could result in loss of market share and adversely impact our profitability. continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries or the dynamics and uncertainties associated with the united kingdom's planned exit from the european union ( brexit ) could have a negative effect on our business. (see below and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - financial outlook for more information on brexit.) all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, results of operations, and our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees in the short or long term. tax matters, including changes in tax laws and rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes, could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. in december 2017, the united states enacted tax reform legislation ( u.s. tax reform ). the legislation implements many new u.s. domestic and international tax provisions. many aspects of u.s. tax reform remain unclear, and although additional clarifying guidance is expected to be issued (by the internal revenue service ( irs ), the u.s. treasury department or via a technical correction law change), it may not be clarified for some time. in addition, a number of u.s. states have not yet updated their laws to take into account the new federal legislation. as a result, there may be further impacts of the new law on our results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that u.s. tax reform, or interpretations under it, could change and could have an adverse effect on us, and such effect could be material. in addition, foreign jurisdictions may enact tax legislation that could significantly affect our ongoing operations. for example, foreign tax authorities could impose rate changes along with additional corporate tax provisions that would disallow or tax perceived base erosion or profit shifting payments or subject us to new types of taxes such as digital taxes. aspects of u.s. tax reform may lead foreign jurisdictions to respond by enacting additional tax legislation that is unfavorable to us. adverse changes in the underlying profitability or financial outlook of our operations in several jurisdictions could lead to changes in the realizability of our deferred tax assets and result in a charge to our income tax provision. additionally, changes in tax laws in the u.s. or in other countries where we have significant operations could materially affect deferred tax assets and liabilities and our income tax provision. we are also subject to tax audits by governmental authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties. unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could significantly adversely affect our income tax provision and our results of operations. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets, including among others brazil, china, india, mexico, russia, argentina, the middle east, africa, southeast asia and ukraine. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries, particularly those with emerging economies, engaging in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act, or local anti-bribery laws may be more common. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers improve and expand their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to achieving our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and 13 table of contents manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our use of information technology and third-party service providers exposes us to cybersecurity breaches and other business disruptions that could adversely affect us. we use information technology and third party service providers to support our global business processes and activities, including supporting critical business operations such as manufacturing and distribution; communicating with our suppliers, customers and employees; maintaining effective accounting processes and financial and disclosure controls; executing mergers and acquisitions and other corporate transactions; conducting research and development activities; meeting regulatory, legal and tax requirements; and executing various digital marketing and consumer promotion activities. global shared service centers managed by third parties provide an increasing amount of services important to conducting our business, including a number of accounting, internal control, human resources and computing functions. continuity of business applications and services has been, and may in the future be, disrupted by events such as infection by viruses or malware, including a malware incident in june 2017 that affected a significant portion of our global sales, distribution and financial networks (the malware incident ) (see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - significant items affecting comparability - malware incident ); other cybersecurity attacks; issues with or errors in systems' maintenance or security; power outages; hardware or software failures; denial of service attacks; telecommunication failures; natural disasters; terrorist attacks; and other catastrophic occurrences. our use of new and emerging technologies such as cloud-based services and mobile applications continues to evolve, presenting new and additional risks in managing access to our data, relying on third-parties to manage and safeguard data, ensuring access to our systems and availability of third-party systems. cybersecurity breaches of our or third party systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyberattacks such as hacking, phishing attacks, computer viruses, ransomware or malware, employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions may cause confidential information belonging to us or our employees, customers, consumers, partners, suppliers, or governmental or regulatory authorities to be misused or breached. when risks such as these materialize, the need for us to coordinate with various third-party service providers and for third party service providers to coordinate amongst themselves might increase challenges and costs to resolve related issues. additionally, if new initiatives, such as those related to e-commerce and direct sales, increase the amount of confidential information that we process and maintain, it could increase our potential exposure from a cybersecurity breach. if our controls, disaster recovery and business continuity plans or those of our third-party providers do not effectively respond to or resolve the issues related to any such disruptions in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we might experience delays in reporting our financial results, loss of intellectual property and damage to our reputation or brands. we continue to devote focused resources to network security, backup and disaster recovery, enhanced training and other security measures to protect our systems and data, such as advanced email protection to reduce the likelihood of credential thefts and electronic fraud attempts. we also focus on enhancing the monitoring and detection of threats in our environment, including but not limited to the manufacturing environment and operational technologies, as well as adjusting information security controls based on the updated threat. however, security measures cannot provide absolute security or guarantee that we will be successful in preventing or responding to every breach or disruption on a timely basis. due to the constantly evolving and complex nature of security threats, we cannot predict the form and impact of any future incident, and the cost and operational expense of implementing, maintaining and enhancing protective measures to guard against increasingly complex and sophisticated cyber threats could increase significantly. we regularly move data across national borders to conduct our operations, and we are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data. privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of european union law and became effective in may 2018, adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and imposes substantial penalties for non-compliance of up to the greater of 14 table of contents 20 million or 4% of global annual revenue for the preceding financial year. our efforts to comply with gdpr and other privacy and data protection laws may impose significant costs and challenges that are likely to increase over time, and we could incur substantial penalties or litigation related to violation of existing or future data privacy laws and regulations. unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we utilize an integrated supply chain - a complex network of suppliers and material needs, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks, shared service delivery centers and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like weather (including any potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, supply and commodity shortages, fire, explosions, terrorism, political unrest, cybersecurity breaches, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics could damage or disrupt our operations or those of our suppliers, their suppliers or our co-manufacturers. if we do not effectively plan for and respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key or sole manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers such as occurred in connection with the malware incident (see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - significant items affecting comparability - malware incident ), and the quality and safety of our products might be negatively affected. if a material or extended disruption occurs, we may lose our customers' or business partners' confidence or suffer damage to our reputation, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. in addition, we might not have the functions, processes or organizational capability necessary to achieve on our anticipated timeframes our strategic ambition to reconfigure our supply chain and continue to drive efficiencies to fuel growth. further, our ability to supply multiple markets with a streamlined manufacturing footprint may be negatively impacted by portfolio complexity, significant changes in trade policies, changes in volume produced and changes to regulatory restrictions or labor-related constraints on our ability to adjust production capacity in the markets in which we operate. these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2018 , we sold our products in over 150 countries and had operations in more than 80 countries. consequently, a significant portion of our business is exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. our financial results and capital ratios are sensitive to movements in currency exchange rates because a large portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes or converted into u.s. dollars to service obligations such as our u.s. dollar-denominated indebtedness and to pay dividends to our shareholders. in addition, movements in currency exchange rates can affect transaction costs because we source product ingredients from various countries. we seek to mitigate our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, primarily on cross-currency transactions, but our efforts may not be successful. we hedge a number of risks including exposures to foreign exchange rate movements and volatility of interest rates that could impact our future borrowing costs. hedging of these risks could potentially subject us to counter-party credit risk. in addition, local economies, monetary policies and currency hedging availability can affect our ability to hedge against currency-related economic losses. we might not be able to successfully mitigate our exposure to currency risks due to factors such as continued global and local market volatility, actions by foreign governments, political uncertainty, inflation and limited hedging opportunities. accordingly, changes in the currency exchange rates that we use to translate our results into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes or for transactions involving multiple currencies could materially and adversely affect future demand for our products, our financial condition and results of operations, and our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees in the short or long-term. commodity and other input prices are volatile and may increase or decrease significantly or availability of commodities may become constrained. we purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, dairy, wheat, palm and other vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, flavoring agents and nuts. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of product packaging materials, natural gas, fuel and electricity for our factories and warehouses, and we also incur expenses in connection with the transportation and delivery of our products. prices for raw materials, other supplies and services and energy are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict. these conditions include global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, geopolitical conditions or conflicts, tariffs 15 table of contents or other trade barriers, severe weather, the potential longer-term consequences of climate change on agricultural productivity, crop disease or pests, water risk, health pandemics, consumer or industrial demand, and changes in governmental trade, alternative energy and agricultural programs. increasing focus on climate change, deforestation, water, plastic waste, animal welfare and human rights concerns and other risks associated with the global food system may lead to increased government intervention and consumer or activist responses, and could adversely affect our or our suppliers' reputation and business and our ability to procure the materials we need to operate our business. some of the commodities we purchase are grown by smallholder farmers, and they might lack the capacity to invest to increase productivity or adapt to changing conditions. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices and hedge against input price increases, we cannot fully hedge against changes in commodity costs, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. continued volatility in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase or changes in the types of commodities we purchase as we continue to evolve our product and packaging portfolio could increase or decrease the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer as a result. moreover, increases in the price of our products, including increases to cover higher input, packaging and transportation costs, may result in lower sales volumes, while decreases in input costs could require us to lower our prices and thereby affect our revenues, profits or margins. likewise, constraints in the supply or availability of key commodities, including necessary services such as transportation, may limit our ability to grow our net revenues and earnings. if our mitigation activities are not effective, if we are unable to price to cover increased costs or must reduce our prices, or if we are limited by supply or distribution constraints, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. complying with changes in and inconsistencies among laws and regulations in many countries in which we operate could increase our costs. our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. various laws and regulations govern food production, packaging, storage, distribution, sales, advertising, labeling and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, labor, tax and environmental matters, privacy, and health and safety practices. government authorities regularly change laws and regulations as well as their interpretations. our compliance with new or revised laws and regulations or the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. for instance, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected by the regulatory and economic impact of changes in taxation and trade relations among the united states and other countries, including a new united states-mexico-canada agreement, china or changes in the european union such as brexit. we continue to monitor brexit and its potential impacts on our results of operations and financial condition. volatility in foreign currencies is expected to continue as the united kingdom executes its exit from the european union. if the united kingdom's membership in the european union terminates in march 2019 without an agreement, there could be increased costs from re-imposition of tariffs on trade between the united kingdom and european union, shipping delays because of the need for customs inspections and procedures and shortages of certain goods. the united kingdom will also need to negotiate its own tax and trade treaties with countries all over the world, which could take years to complete. this potential scenario is usually referred to as a hard brexit. in the case of a hard brexit, our exposure to disruptions to our supply chain, the imposition of tariffs and currency devaluation in the u.k. could result in a material impact to our consolidated revenue, earnings and cash flow. in 2018, we generated 8.6% of our net revenues in the united kingdom and our supply chain in this market relies on imports of raw and packaging materials as well as finished goods. (see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - financial outlook for more information on brexit.) we may be unable to hire or retain and develop key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce or manage changes in our workforce. we must hire, retain and develop effective leaders and a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to hire new personnel with a variety of capabilities in the many countries in which we manufacture and market our products and then to develop and retain their skills and competencies. unplanned turnover, failure to attract and develop personnel with key emerging capabilities such as e-commerce and digital marketing skills, or failure to develop adequate succession plans for leadership positions or to hire and retain a workforce with the skills and in the locations we need to operate and grow our business could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitiveness. changes in our operating model and business processes, including building a winning growth culture, implementing our local first commercial approach, utilizing our global shared services capability and reconfiguring our supply chain, could lead to operational challenges, increased competition for employees with the skills we require to achieve our business goals and higher employee turnover, including of employees with key 16 table of contents capabilities. failure to achieve a more diverse workforce and leadership team, compensate our employees competitively and fairly or maintain a safe and inclusive environment could affect our reputation and also result in lower performance and an inability to retain valuable employees. we might be unable to manage appropriately changes in, or that affect, our workforce or satisfy the legal requirements associated with how we manage and compensate our employees. this includes our management of employees represented by labor unions or workers' councils, who represent approximately 60% of our 68,000 employees outside the united states and approximately 28% of our 12,000 u.s. employees. strikes, work stoppages or other forms of labor unrest by our employees or those of our suppliers or distributors, or situations like the renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements that expired in february 2016 and that cover eight u.s. facilities, could cause disruptions to our supply chain, manufacturing or distribution processes. changes in immigration laws and policies, including in connection with brexit, could also make it more difficult for us to recruit or relocate skilled employees. these risks could materially and adversely affect our reputation, ability to meet the needs of our customers, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our retail customers are consolidating and we must leverage our value proposition in order to compete against retailer and other economy brands. retail customers, such as supermarkets, discounters, e-commerce merchants, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the european union, the united states and other major markets, continue to consolidate, form buying alliances or be acquired by new entrants in the food retail market, resulting in fewer, larger customers. large retail customers and customer alliances can delist our products or reduce the shelf space allotted to our products and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs or longer payment terms. retail customers might also adopt these tactics in their dealings with us in response to the significant growth in online retailing for consumer products, which is outpacing the growth of traditional retail channels. the continued growth of e-commerce and the increasing prevalence of business-to-business e-commerce could lead to further consolidation as these new suppliers enhance their regional and local distribution networks in order to achieve national distribution capability. in addition, larger retail customers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. our products must provide higher quality or value to our consumers than the less expensive alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if consumers perceive little difference between the quality or value of our products and those of retailer or other economy brands. if consumers switch to purchasing or otherwise prefer the retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes, or we may need to shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers' business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases. if we do not effectively respond to retail consolidation, increasing retail power and competition from retailer and other economy brands, our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are subject to changes in our relationships with significant customers, suppliers or distributors. during 2018 , our five largest customers accounted for 16.8% of our net revenues. there can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. the loss of or disruptions related to significant customers could result in a material reduction in sales or change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer. this could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, disputes with significant suppliers or distributors, including disputes related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply or deliver products to our customers or operate our business and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents we may decide or be required to recall products or be subjected to product liability claims. we could decide, or laws or regulations could require us, to recall products due to suspected or confirmed deliberate or unintentional product contamination, including contamination of ingredients we use in our products that third parties supply, spoilage or other adulteration, product mislabeling or product tampering. in addition, if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in this category. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations or those of our suppliers violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our or our suppliers' products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment against us, a related regulatory enforcement action, a widespread product recall or attempts to manipulate us based on threats related to the safety of our products could materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability, consumer fraud or other claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, product inventory, financial condition and results of operations. we could be subject to legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. we are a large snack food company operating in highly regulated environments and constantly evolving legal, tax and regulatory frameworks around the world. consequently, we are subject to greater risk of litigation, legal or tax claims, or other regulatory enforcement actions. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate policies and procedures we have implemented to promote compliance with existing laws and regulations. moreover, a failure to maintain effective control environment processes, including in connection with our global shared services capability, could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. litigation, legal or tax claims, or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or controls, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage strategic transactions. we regularly evaluate a variety of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, equity method investments and other strategic alliances that could further our strategic business objectives. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage the risks presented by these strategic transactions. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable transactions; negotiate favorable contractual terms; comply with applicable regulations and receive necessary consents, clearances and approvals (including regulatory and antitrust clearances and approvals); integrate or separate businesses; realize the full extent of the benefits, cost savings or synergies presented by strategic transactions; effectively implement control environment processes with employees joining us as a result of a transaction; minimize adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; achieve accurate estimates of fair value; minimize potential loss of customers or key employees; and minimize indemnities and potential disputes with buyers, sellers and strategic partners. in addition, execution or oversight of strategic transactions may result in the diversion of management attention from our existing business and may present financial, managerial and operational risks. with respect to acquisitions and joint ventures in particular, we are also exposed to potential risks based on our ability to conform standards, controls, policies and procedures, and business cultures; consolidate and streamline operations and infrastructures; identify and eliminate, as appropriate, redundant and underperforming operations and assets; manage inefficiencies associated with the integration of operations; and coordinate timely and ongoing compliance with antitrust and competition laws in the united states, the european union and other jurisdictions. joint ventures and similar strategic alliances pose additional risks, as we share ownership in both public and private companies and in some cases management responsibilities with one or more other parties whose objectives for the alliance may diverge from ours over time, who may not have the same priorities, strategies or resources as we do, or whose interpretation of applicable policies may differ from our own. transactions or ventures into which we enter might not meet our financial and non-financial control and compliance expectations or yield the anticipated benefits. depending on the nature of the business ventures, including whether they operate globally, these ventures could also be subject to many of the same risks we are, including political, economic, regulatory and compliance risks, currency exchange rate fluctuations, and volatility of commodity and other input prices. either partner might fail to 18 table of contents recognize an alliance relationship that could expose the business to higher risk or make the venture not as productive as expected. furthermore, we may not be able to complete, on terms favorable to us, desired or proposed divestitures of businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or our growth or profitability targets. our divestiture activities, or related activities such as reorganizations, restructuring programs and transformation initiatives, may require us to recognize impairment charges or to take action to reduce costs that remain after we complete a divestiture. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may also affect our profitability. any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we could fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. the accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. these limitations include, among others, the possibility of human error, inadequacy or circumvention of controls and fraud. if we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or design and implement controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of our financial statements, including in connection with controls executed for us by third parties, we might fail to timely detect any misappropriation of corporate assets or inappropriate allocation or use of funds and could be unable to file accurate financial reports on a timely basis. as a result, our reputation, results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid global capital markets and volatile global economic conditions could limit our access to the global capital markets, reduce our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs. we access the long-term and short-term global capital markets to obtain financing. our financial performance, our short-and long-term debt credit ratings, interest rates, the stability of financial institutions with which we partner, the liquidity of the overall global capital markets and the state of the global economy, including the food industry, could affect our access to, and the availability or cost of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions and our ability to pay dividends in the future. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the global capital markets on terms we find acceptable. we regularly access the commercial paper markets in the united states and europe for ongoing funding requirements. a downgrade in our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect our ability to issue commercial paper. disruptions in the global commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the global credit markets also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. limitations on our ability to access the global capital markets, a reduction in our liquidity or an increase in our borrowing costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. volatility in the equity markets, interest rates, our participation in multiemployer pension plans and other factors could increase our costs relating to our employees' pensions. we sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans for our employees throughout the world and also contribute toward our employees' pensions under defined benefit plans that we do not sponsor. at the end of 2018 , the projected benefit obligation of the defined benefit pension plans we sponsor was $11.1 billion and plan assets were $10.0 billion . for defined benefit pension plans that we maintain, the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. our largest funded defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of investments, including equities and corporate and government debt. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which the plans operate and the market value of plan assets can affect the level 19 table of contents of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost and increase our future funding requirements. legislative and other governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans' benefits obligation. volatility in the global capital markets may increase the risk that we will be required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net periodic pension cost. we also participate in multiemployer pension plans for certain u.s. represented employees. as a participating employer under multiemployer pension plans, we may owe more than the contributions we are required to make under the applicable collective bargaining agreements. for example, if we partially or completely withdraw from a multiemployer pension plan, we may be required to pay a partial or complete withdrawal liability. this withdrawal liability will generally increase if there is also a mass withdrawal of other participating employers or if the plan terminates. in the fourth quarter of 2018, we executed a complete withdrawal from the bakery and confectionery union and industry international pension fund (the fund ). we estimated a withdrawal liability of $573 million , which represents our best estimate of the withdrawal liability absent an assessment from the fund. we anticipate receiving an assessment in 2019, and the ultimate withdrawal liability may change from the currently estimated amount. we expect to pay the liability over a period of 20 years from the date of the assessment. in 2018, we recorded a $423 million discounted liability and $6 million of accrued interest to date and related charges in earnings. see note 10, benefit plans , to the consolidated financial statements for more information on our multiemployer pension plans. a significant increase in our pension benefit obligations or funding requirements could curtail our ability to invest in the business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our failure to protect our valuable intellectual property rights could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable part of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by taking advantage of a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in various countries, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of third party claims of intellectual property infringement relating to our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert management's and other key personnel's attention from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to pay monetary damages or enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as we operate globally, we are primarily exposed to currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate market risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we principally utilize derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. for additional information on our derivative activity and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge our currency exchange, commodity price and interest rate exposures, see note 1, summary of significant accounting policies , and note 9, financial instruments . many of our non-u.s. subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates create volatility in our reported results as we translate the balance sheets, operating results and cash flows of these subsidiaries into the u.s. dollar for consolidated reporting purposes. the translation of non-u.s. dollar denominated balance sheets and statements of earnings of our subsidiaries into the u.s. dollar for consolidated reporting generally results in a cumulative translation adjustment to other comprehensive income within equity. a stronger u.s. dollar relative to other functional currencies adversely affects our consolidated earnings and net assets while a weaker u.s. dollar benefits our consolidated earnings and net assets. while we hedge significant forecasted currency exchange transactions as well as certain net assets of non-u.s. operations and other currency impacts, we cannot fully predict or eliminate volatility arising from changes in currency exchange rates on our consolidated financial results. see consolidated results of operations and results of operations by reportable segment under discussion and analysis of historical results for currency exchange effects on our financial results. for additional information on the impact of currency policies, recent currency devaluations and highly inflationary accounting on our financial condition and results of operations, also see note 1, summary of significant accounting policies currency translation and highly inflationary accounting . we also continually monitor the market for commodities that we use in our products. input costs may fluctuate widely due to international demand, weather conditions, government policy and regulation and unforeseen conditions. to manage input cost volatility, we enter into forward purchase agreements and other derivative financial instruments. we also pursue productivity and cost saving measures and take pricing actions when necessary to mitigate the impact of higher input costs on earnings. we regularly evaluate our variable and fixed-rate debt as well as current and expected interest rates in the markets in which we raise capital. our primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, corporate credit spreads, commercial paper rates as well as limited debt tied to london interbank offered rates ( libor ). the financial conduct authority in the united kingdom plans to phase out libor by the end of 2021. we do not anticipate a significant impact to our financial position from the planned phase out of libor given our current mix of variable and fixed-rate debt. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt based on current and projected market conditions. our weighted-average interest rate on our total debt was 2.3% as of december 31, 2018 , up from 2.1% as of december 31, 2017 primarily due to higher interest rates on commercial paper borrowings. beginning in the first quarter of 2018, we entered into new investment hedge derivative contracts, specifically, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forwards, to hedge certain investments in our non-u.s. operations against movements in exchange rates. see note 9, financial instruments , for more information on our derivative activity. there were no other significant changes in the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge our exposures between december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2018 . value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. the var analysis was done separately for our currency exchange, fixed income and commodity risk portfolios as of each quarter end during the periods presented below. the instruments included in the var computation were currency exchange forwards and options for currency exchange risk, debt and swaps for interest rate risk, and commodity forwards, futures and options for commodity risk. excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in non-u.s. subsidiaries, which the above-mentioned instruments are intended to hedge. 62 table of contents the var model assumes normal market conditions, a 95% confidence interval and a one-day holding period. a parametric delta-gamma approximation technique was used to determine the expected return distribution in interest rates, currencies and commodity prices for the purpose of calculating the fixed income, currency exchange and commodity var, respectively. the parameters used for estimating the expected return distributions were determined by observing interest rate, currency exchange and commodity price movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity and were valued accordingly in the var computation. as of december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 , the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our currency and commodity instruments, as calculated in the var model, were: pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/18 average high low at 12/31/18 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 35 $ 33 $ 36 $ 27 foreign currency rates $ 19 $ 30 $ 39 $ 19 commodity prices 15 16 17 15 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/17 average high low at 12/31/17 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 31 $ 45 $ 55 $ 31 foreign currency rates $ 15 $ 16 $ 22 $ 11 commodity prices 14 17 24 14 this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum expected daily loss, under the specified confidence interval and assuming normal market conditions, from adverse movements in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings we will incur, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 63 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. you should carefully read the following discussion of significant factors, events and uncertainties when evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. the events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, these risk factors do not identify all the risks we face, and there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be significant that may have a material adverse effect on our business, performance or financial condition in the future. we operate in a highly competitive industry and we face risks related to the execution of our strategy and our timely response to pricing and other competitive pressures. the food and snacking industry is highly competitive. our principal competitors include food, snack and beverage companies that operate in multiple geographic areas and numerous local and regional companies. failure to effectively respond to challenges from our competitors could adversely affect our business. competitor and customer pressures require that we timely and effectively respond to new distribution channels and technological developments and may require that we reduce our prices. these pressures also affect our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. failure to effectively and timely assess new or developing trends, technological advancements or changes in distribution methods and set proper pricing or effective trade incentives will negatively impact our operating results, achievement of our strategic and financial goals and our ability to capitalize on new revenue or value-producing opportunities. the rapid evolution of new distribution channels, in particular in e-commerce, may disrupt our current operations or strategies more quickly than we planned for, create consumer price deflation, alter the buying behavior of consumers or disrupt our retail customer relationships. we may need to increase or reallocate spending on existing and new distribution channels and technologies, marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect or increase revenues, market share and brand significance. these expenditures may not be successful, including those related to our e-commerce and other technology-focused efforts, and might not result in trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. these new distribution channels as well as growing opportunities to utilize external manufacturers allow smaller competitors to more effectively gain market share. additionally, if we reduce prices but cannot increase sales volumes, or our labor or other costs increase but we cannot increase prices to offset those changes, our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. during 2019, we operated under our new strategy, which focuses on accelerating consumer-centric and volume-driven growth, operational excellence driven by cost discipline and continuous operational improvement including in areas like sales execution, and building a winning growth culture with a local first commercial approach. failure to achieve these objectives or effectively operate under our strategy in a way that minimizes disruptions to our business could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. promoting and protecting our reputation and brand image and health is essential to our business success. our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brands, expand to new geographies and new distribution platforms, including e-commerce, and evolve our portfolio with new product offerings that meet consumer expectations. we seek to strengthen our brands through investments in our product quality, product renovation, innovation and marketing investments, including consumer-relevant advertising, digital transformation and consumer promotions. failure to effectively address the continuing global focus on consumer-centric well-being, including changing consumer acceptance of certain ingredients, nutritional expectations of our products, and the sustainability of our ingredients, our supply chain and our packaging could adversely affect our brands. increased attention from the media, governments, shareholders and other stakeholders in these areas as well as on the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image. undue caution or inaction on our part in addressing these challenges and trends could weaken our competitive position. such pressures could also lead to stricter regulations, industry self-regulation that is unevenly adopted among companies, and increased focus on food and snacking marketing practices. increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our labeling, advertising and consumer promotions, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity, regulatory developments or legal action against us, our employees or our licensees related to product quality and safety, where and how we manufacture our products, environmental risks, human and workplace rights 11 table of contents across our supply chain, or antitrust, anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance could damage our reputation and brand health. such actions could undermine our customers' and shareholders' confidence and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or these matters are immaterial to our operations. our product sponsorship relationships, including those with celebrity spokespersons, influencers or group affiliations, could also subject us to negative publicity. in addition, our success in maintaining and enhancing our brand image depends on our ability to anticipate change and adapt to a rapidly changing marketing and media environment, including our increasing reliance on established and emerging social media and online platforms, digital and mobile dissemination of marketing and advertising campaigns, targeted marketing and the increasing accessibility and speed of dissemination of information. a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions limit how and to whom we market our products. these restrictions may limit our brand renovation, innovation, marketing and promotion plans, particularly as social media and the communications environment continue to evolve. negative posts or comments about mondel z international, our brands or our employees on social media or web sites (whether factual or not) or security breaches related to use of our social media accounts and failure to respond effectively to these posts, comments or activities could damage our reputation and brand image across the various regions in which we operate. our brands may be associated with or appear alongside harmful content before these platforms or our own social media monitoring can detect this risk to our brand health. in addition, we might fail to invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brands, our marketing efforts might not achieve desired results and we might be required to recognize impairment charges on our brands or related intangible assets or goodwill. furthermore, third parties may sell counterfeit or imitation versions of our products that are inferior or pose safety risks. when consumers confuse these counterfeit products for our products or have a bad experience with the counterfeit brand, they might refrain from purchasing our brands in the future, which could harm our brand image and sales. failure to successfully maintain and enhance our reputation and brand health could materially and adversely affect our company and product brands as well as our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand and offer new and improved products that meet those changes. consumer preferences for food and snacking products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes, dietary habits, packaging, sales channel and other preferences of consumers around the world and to offer products that appeal to these preferences in the places and ways consumers want to shop. there may be further shifts in the relative size of shopping channels in addition to the increasing role of e-commerce for consumers. our success relies upon managing this complexity to promote and bring our products to consumers effectively. moreover, weak economic conditions, recession, equity market volatility or other factors, such as severe or unusual weather events, can affect consumer preferences and demand. failure to offer products that appeal to consumers or to correctly judge consumer demand for our products will impact our ability to meet our growth targets, and our sales and market share could decrease and our profitability could suffer. we must distinguish between short-term fads and trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. when we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences or category trends will be long-term or fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy changing preferences, our sales can be adversely affected. in addition, because of our varied and geographically diverse consumer base, we must be responsive to local consumer needs, including with respect to when and how consumers snack and their desire for premium or value offerings, provide an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences and use data-driven marketing and advertising to reach consumers at the right time with the right message. failure to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories or reach consumers in efficient and effective ways leveraging data and analytics could cause demand for our products to decrease and our profitability to suffer. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health, environmental and social implications of certain food products, ingredients, packaging materials, sourcing or production methods could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. for example, consumers have increasingly focused on well-being, including reducing sodium and added sugar consumption, as well as the source and authenticity of the foods they consume. continuing to expand our well-being offerings and refining the ingredient and nutrition profiles of existing products is important to our growth, as is maintaining focus on ethical sourcing and supply chain management opportunities to address evolving consumer preferences. in addition, consumer preferences differ by region, and we must monitor and adjust our use of ingredients to respond to these regional preferences. we might be unsuccessful in our efforts to effectively respond to changing consumer preferences and 12 table of contents social expectations. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks from operating globally. we are a global company and generated 74.4% of our 2019 net revenues, 75.3% of our 2018 net revenues and 75.8% of our 2017 net revenues outside the united states. we manufacture and market our products in over 150 countries and have operations in approximately 80 countries. therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in global operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, including anti-bribery laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); the imposition of increased or new tariffs, sanctions, quotas, trade barriers, price floors or similar restrictions on our sales or key commodities like cocoa, potential changes in u.s. trade programs and trade relations with other countries, or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales or profitability; compliance with antitrust and competition laws, trade laws, data privacy laws, anti-bribery laws, human rights laws and a variety of other local, national and multinational regulations and laws in multiple regimes; currency devaluations or fluctuations in currency values, including in developing markets such as argentina, brazil, china, mexico, russia, ukraine, turkey, egypt, nigeria, south africa and pakistan as well as in developed markets such as the united kingdom and other countries within the european union. this includes events like applying highly inflationary accounting as we did for our argentinean subsidiaries beginning in july 2018; changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product into various countries or repatriate cash from outside the united states; increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit ratings of governments, particularly in our latin america and amea regions; changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in non-u.s. jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; and design, implementation and use of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, government shutdowns, travel or immigration restrictions, public health risks or pandemics, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties, including inaccuracies in our assumptions about these factors, could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. high unemployment or the slowdown in economic growth in some markets could constrain consumer spending. declining consumer purchasing power could result in loss of market share and adversely impact our profitability. continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries or the dynamics and uncertainties associated with the united kingdom's planned exit from the european union ( brexit ) could have a negative effect on our business. (see below and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - financial outlook for more information on brexit.) all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, results of operations, and our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees in the short or long term. we face risks related to tax matters, including changes in tax laws and rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes. in december 2017, the united states enacted tax reform legislation ( u.s. tax reform ). the legislation implements many new u.s. domestic and international tax provisions. while additional guidance has been issued by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and the u.s. treasury department during 2018 and 2019, there are still some areas that need to be clarified. also, a number of u.s. states have not updated their laws to take into account the new federal legislation. as a result, there may be further impact of the new laws on our future results of operations and financial condition. changes in u.s. tax law, including further interpretations of the 2017 u.s. tax reform, could have a material adverse effect on us. 13 table of contents in addition, tax legislation enacted by foreign jurisdictions could significantly affect our ongoing operations. for example, during the third quarter of 2019, swiss federal and zurich cantonal events took place that resulted in enacted tax law changes under u.s. gaap ( swiss tax reform ). the new legislation is intended to replace certain preferential tax regimes with a new set of internationally accepted measures. we will continue to monitor swiss tax reform for any additional interpretative guidance that could result in changes to the amounts we have recorded. further, foreign tax authorities could impose rate changes along with additional corporate tax provisions that would disallow or tax perceived base erosion or profit shifting payments or subject us to new types of taxes such as digital taxes. aspects of u.s. tax reform may lead foreign jurisdictions to respond by enacting additional tax legislation that is unfavorable to us. adverse changes in the underlying profitability or financial outlook of our operations in several jurisdictions could lead to changes in the realizability of our deferred tax assets and result in a charge to our income tax provision. additionally, changes in tax laws in the u.s. or in other countries where we have significant operations could materially affect deferred tax assets and liabilities and our income tax provision. we are also subject to tax audits by governmental authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties. unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could significantly adversely affect our income tax provision and our results of operations. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets, including among others brazil, china, india, mexico, russia, argentina, the middle east, africa, southeast asia and ukraine. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries, particularly those with emerging economies, engaging in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act, or local anti-bribery laws may be more common. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low-cost local manufacturers improve and expand their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to achieving our growth strategy. failure to successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our use of information technology and third-party service providers exposes us to cybersecurity breaches and other business disruptions. we use information technology and third-party service providers to support our global business processes and activities, including supporting critical business operations such as manufacturing and distribution; communicating with our suppliers, customers and employees; maintaining effective accounting processes and financial and disclosure controls; executing mergers and acquisitions and other corporate transactions; conducting research and development activities; meeting regulatory, legal and tax requirements; and executing various digital marketing and consumer promotion activities. global shared service centers managed by third parties provide an increasing amount of services important to conducting our business, including a number of accounting, internal control, human resources and computing functions. continuity of business applications and services has been, and may in the future be, disrupted by events such as infection by viruses or malware, including the june 2017 malware incident that affected a significant portion of our global sales, distribution and financial networks (the malware incident ) (see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations recent developments and significant items affecting comparability malware incident and financial outlook cybersecurity risks ); other cybersecurity attacks; issues with or errors in systems' maintenance or security; power outages; hardware or software failures; denial of service attacks; telecommunication failures; natural disasters; terrorist attacks; and other catastrophic occurrences. our use of new and emerging technologies such as cloud-based services and mobile applications continues to 14 table of contents evolve, presenting new and additional risks in managing access to our data, relying on third-parties to manage and safeguard data, ensuring access to our systems and availability of third-party systems. cybersecurity breaches of our or third-party systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyberattacks such as hacking, phishing attacks, computer viruses, ransomware or malware, employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions may cause confidential information belonging to us or our employees, customers, consumers, partners, suppliers, or governmental or regulatory authorities to be misused or breached. when risks such as these materialize, the need for us to coordinate with various third-party service providers and for third-party service providers to coordinate amongst themselves might increase challenges and costs to resolve related issues. additionally, new initiatives, such as those related to e-commerce and direct sales, that increase the amount of confidential information that we process and maintain increase our potential exposure from a cybersecurity breach. if our controls, disaster recovery and business continuity plans or those of our third-party providers do not effectively respond to or resolve the issues related to any such disruptions in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we might experience delays in reporting our financial results, loss of intellectual property and damage to our reputation or brands. we continue to devote focused resources to network security, backup and disaster recovery, enhanced training and other security measures to protect our systems and data, such as advanced email protection to reduce the likelihood of credential thefts and electronic fraud attempts. we also focus on enhancing the monitoring and detection of threats in our environment, including but not limited to the manufacturing environment and operational technologies, as well as adjusting information security controls based on the updated threat. however, security measures cannot provide absolute security or guarantee that we will be successful in preventing or responding to every breach or disruption on a timely basis. due to the constantly evolving and complex nature of security threats, we cannot predict the form and impact of any future incident, and the cost and operational expense of implementing, maintaining and enhancing protective measures to guard against increasingly complex and sophisticated cyber threats could increase significantly. we regularly transfer data across national borders to conduct our operations, and we are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data. privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which has greatly increased the jurisdictional reach of european union law and became effective in may 2018, adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and imposes substantial penalties for non-compliance of up to 4% of global annual revenue for the preceding financial year. the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), which became effective on january 1, 2020, imposes new responsibilities on us for the handling, disclosure and deletion of personal information for consumers who reside in california. the ccpa permits california to assess potentially significant fines for violating ccpa and creates a right for individuals to bring class action suits seeking damages for violations. our efforts to comply with gdpr, ccpa and other privacy and data protection laws may impose significant costs and challenges that are likely to increase over time, and we could incur substantial penalties or be subject to litigation related to violation of existing or future data privacy laws and regulations. we are subject to risks from unanticipated business disruptions. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we utilize an integrated supply chain - a complex network of suppliers and material needs, owned and leased manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks, shared service delivery centers and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like weather (including any potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, water availability, supply and commodity shortages, terrorism, political unrest, cybersecurity breaches, generalized labor unrest, government shutdowns or health pandemics could damage or disrupt our operations or those of our suppliers, their suppliers, or our co-manufacturers or distributors. failure to effectively plan for and respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by not finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key or sole manufacturing or distribution locations or by not quickly repairing damage to our information, production or supply systems, can cause delays in delivering or the inability to deliver products to our customers as we experienced in connection with the malware incident (see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations recent developments and significant items affecting comparability malware incident and financial outlook cybersecurity risks ), and the quality and safety of our products might be negatively affected. the occurrence of a 15 table of contents material or extended disruption may cause us to lose our customers' or business partners' confidence or suffer damage to our reputation, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. in addition, we are subject to risk related to our own execution. this includes risk of disruption caused by operational error including fire, explosion or accidental contamination as well as our inability to achieve our strategic objectives due to capability or technology deficiencies related to our ongoing reconfiguration of our supply chain to drive efficiencies and fuel growth. further, our ability to supply multiple markets with a streamlined manufacturing footprint may be negatively impacted by portfolio complexity, significant changes in trade policies, changes in volume produced and changes to regulatory restrictions or labor-related or other constraints on our ability to adjust production capacity in the markets in which we operate. these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2019 , we sold our products in over 150 countries and had operations in approximately 80 countries. consequently, a significant portion of our business is exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. our financial results and capital ratios are sensitive to movements in currency exchange rates because a large portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes or converted into u.s. dollars to service obligations such as our u.s. dollar-denominated indebtedness and to pay dividends to our shareholders. in addition, movements in currency exchange rates affect transaction costs because we source product ingredients from various countries. our efforts to mitigate our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, primarily on cross-currency transactions, may not be successful. we hedge a number of risks including exposures to foreign exchange rate movements and volatility of interest rates that could impact our future borrowing costs. hedging of these risks could potentially subject us to counter-party credit risk. in addition, local economies, monetary policies and currency hedging availability affect our ability to hedge against currency-related economic losses. we might not be able to successfully mitigate our exposure to currency risks due to factors such as continued global and local market volatility, actions by foreign governments, political uncertainty, inflation and limited hedging opportunities. accordingly, changes in the currency exchange rates that we use to translate our results into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes or for transactions involving multiple currencies could materially and adversely affect future demand for our products, our financial condition and results of operations, and our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees in the short or long-term. commodity and other input prices are volatile and may increase or decrease significantly or availability of commodities may become constrained. we purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, dairy, wheat, palm and other vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, flavoring agents and nuts. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of product packaging materials, natural gas, fuel and electricity for our factories and warehouses, and we also incur expenses in connection with the transportation and delivery of our products. costs of raw materials, other supplies and services and energy are volatile and fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict. these conditions include global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, geopolitical conditions or conflicts, tariffs or other trade barriers, government intervention to introduce living income premiums or similar requirements such as those announced in 2019 in two cocoa-growing countries, severe weather, the potential longer-term consequences of climate change on agricultural productivity, crop disease or pests, water risk, health pandemics, forest fires, consumer or industrial demand, and changes in governmental trade policy and regulations, alternative energy and agricultural programs. increased government intervention and consumer or activist responses caused by increased focus on climate change, deforestation, water, plastic waste, animal welfare and human rights concerns and other risks associated with the global food system could adversely affect our or our suppliers' reputation and business and our ability to procure the materials we need to operate our business. some commodities are grown by smallholder farmers who might not be able to invest to increase productivity or adapt to changing conditions. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices and hedge against input price increases, we cannot fully hedge against changes in commodity costs, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. continued volatility in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase or changes in the types of commodities we purchase as we continue to evolve our product and packaging portfolio could increase or decrease the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer as a result. moreover, increases in the price of our products, including increases to cover higher input, packaging and transportation costs, may result in lower sales volumes, while decreases in input costs could require us to lower our prices and thereby affect our revenues, profits or margins. likewise, constraints in the supply or availability of key commodities, including necessary services such as transportation, may limit our ability to grow our net revenues and earnings. if our mitigation activities are not effective, if we are unable to price to cover increased costs or must reduce our 16 table of contents prices, or if we are limited by supply or distribution constraints, our financial condition and results of operations can be materially adversely affected. we face risks related to complying with changes in and inconsistencies among laws and regulations in many countries in which we operate. our activities around the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. various laws and regulations govern food production, packaging and waste management, storage, distribution, sales, advertising, labeling and marketing, as well as intellectual property, competition, antitrust, trade, labor, tax and environmental matters, privacy, data protection, and health and safety practices. government authorities regularly change laws and regulations as well as their interpretations of existing laws and regulations. our failure to comply with existing laws and regulations, or to make changes necessary to comply with new or revised laws and regulations or evolving interpretations and application of existing laws and regulations, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. for instance, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected by the regulatory and economic impact of changes in taxation and trade relations among the united states and other countries, including a new united states-mexico-canada agreement when ratified, developments in u.s. trade relations with china or changes with or in the european union such as brexit. we continue to monitor brexit and its potential impacts on our results of operations and financial condition. in 2019, we generated 8.6% of our net revenues in the united kingdom, and our supply chain in this market relies on imports of raw and packaging materials as well as finished goods. volatility in foreign currencies and other markets is expected to continue as the united kingdom executes its exit from the european union. if the u.k.'s membership in the european union terminates without trade and other cross-border operating agreements, there could be increased costs from re-imposition of tariffs on trade between the united kingdom and other countries, including those in the european union, shipping delays because of the need for customs inspections and procedures and shortages of certain goods. the united kingdom will also need to negotiate its own tax and trade treaties with countries all over the world, which could take years to complete. if the ultimate terms of the u.k.'s separation from the european union negatively impact the u.k. economy or result in disruptions to sales or our supply chain, the imposition of tariffs or currency devaluation in the united kingdom, the impact to our consolidated revenue, earnings and cash flow could be material. (see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial outlook brexit for more information.) we may be unable to hire or retain and develop key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce or manage changes in our workforce. we must hire, retain and develop effective leaders and a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to hire new personnel with a variety of capabilities in the many countries in which we manufacture and market our products and then to develop and retain their skills and competencies. unplanned or increased turnover of employees with key capabilities, failure to attract and develop personnel with key emerging capabilities such as e-commerce and digital marketing skills, or failure to develop adequate succession plans for leadership positions or to hire and retain a workforce with the skills and in the locations we need to operate and grow our business could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitiveness. changes in our operating model and business processes, including building a winning growth culture, implementing our local first commercial approach, utilizing our global shared services capability and reconfiguring our supply chain, could lead to operational challenges and changes in the skills we require to achieve our business goals. failure to achieve a more diverse workforce and leadership team, compensate our employees competitively and fairly or maintain a safe and inclusive environment could affect our reputation and also result in lower performance and an inability to retain valuable employees. we might be unable to manage appropriately changes in, or that affect, our workforce or satisfy the legal requirements associated with how we manage and compensate our employees. this includes our management of employees represented by labor unions or workers' councils, who represent approximately 63% of our 68,000 employees outside the united states and approximately 27% of our 12,000 u.s. employees. strikes, work stoppages or other forms of labor unrest by our employees or those of our suppliers or distributors, or situations like the renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements that expired in february 2016 and that cover eight u.s. facilities, could cause disruptions to our supply chain, manufacturing or distribution processes. changes in immigration laws and policies, including in connection with brexit, could also make it more difficult for us to recruit or relocate skilled employees. 17 table of contents these risks could materially and adversely affect our reputation, ability to meet the needs of our customers, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our retail customers are consolidating, and we must leverage our value proposition in order to compete against retailer and other economy brands. retail customers, such as supermarkets, discounters, e-commerce merchants, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the european union, the united states and other major markets, continue to consolidate, form buying alliances or be acquired by new entrants in the food retail market, resulting in fewer, larger customers. large retail customers and customer alliances can delist our products or reduce the shelf space allotted to our products and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs or longer payment terms. retail customers might also adopt these tactics in their dealings with us in response to the significant growth in online retailing for consumer products, which is outpacing the growth of traditional retail channels. the emergence of alternative online retail channels, such as direct to consumer and e-business to business, may adversely affect our relationships with our large retail and wholesale customers. in addition, larger retail customers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. our products must provide higher quality or value to our consumers than the less expensive alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products when they perceive little difference between the quality or value of our products and those of retailer or other economy brands. when consumers prefer or otherwise choose to purchase the retailer or other economy brands, we can lose market share or sales volumes, or we may need to shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers' business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases. failure to effectively respond to retail consolidation, increasing retail power and competition from retailer and other economy brands could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to changes in our relationships with significant customers, suppliers and distributors. during 2019 , our five largest customers accounted for 17.0% of our net revenues. there can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. the loss of or disruptions related to significant customers could result in a material reduction in sales or change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer. this could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. disputes with significant suppliers or distributors, including disputes related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply or deliver products to our customers or operate our business and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the financial condition of our significant customers, suppliers and distributors are affected by events that are largely beyond our control. deterioration in the financial condition of significant customers, suppliers or distributors could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may decide or be required to recall products or be subjected to product liability claims. we could decide, or laws or regulations could require us, to recall products due to suspected or confirmed deliberate or unintentional product contamination, including contamination of ingredients we use in our products that third parties supply, spoilage or other adulteration, product mislabeling or product tampering. in addition, if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in this category. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may also suffer losses when our products or operations or those of our suppliers violate applicable laws or regulations, or when our or our suppliers' products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our marketing could 18 table of contents face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment against us, a related regulatory enforcement action, a widespread product recall or attempts to manipulate us based on threats related to the safety of our products could materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability, consumer fraud or other claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, product inventory, financial condition and results of operations. we face risks related to legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. we are a large snack food company operating in highly regulated environments and constantly evolving legal, tax and regulatory frameworks around the world. consequently, we are subject to greater risk of litigation, legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with existing laws and regulations; however, there can be no assurance that we maintain effective control environment processes, including in connection with our global shared services capability. actions by our employees, contractors or agents in violation of our policies and procedures could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. when litigation, legal or tax claims or regulatory enforcement actions arise out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or controls, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. climate change might adversely impact our supply chain or our operations. scientific evidence collected by the intergovernmental panel on climate change demonstrates that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have caused and will in the future cause changes in weather patterns around the globe. these changes are expected to increase the frequency of extreme weather events and natural disasters and affect water availability and quality. these impacts increase risks for the global food production and distribution system. decreased agricultural productivity caused by climate change might limit the availability of the commodities we purchase and use. these include cocoa, which is a critical raw material for our chocolate and biscuit portfolios that is particularly sensitive to changes in climate, as well as other raw materials such as wheat, vegetable oils, sugar, nuts and dairy. localized weather events such as floods, severe storms or water shortages that are partially caused or exacerbated by climate change might disrupt our business operations or those of our suppliers, their suppliers, or our co-manufacturers or distributors. concern about climate change might result in new legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of climate change. these changes could increase our operating costs for things like energy through taxes or regulations. concern about climate change might cause consumer preferences to switch away from products or ingredients considered to have high climate change impact. furthermore, we might fail to effectively address increased attention from the media, shareholders, activists and other stakeholders on climate change and related environmental sustainability matters, including deforestation, land use, water use and packaging, including plastic. finally, the fact that consumers are exposed to rising temperatures could affect demand for our products, such as decreased demand we have experienced for chocolate during periods when temperatures are warmer. taken together these risks could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet the needs of our customers, reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage strategic transactions. we regularly evaluate a variety of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, equity method investments and other strategic alliances that could further our strategic business objectives. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage the risks presented by these strategic transactions. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable transactions; negotiate favorable contractual terms; comply with applicable regulations and receive necessary consents, clearances and approvals (including regulatory and antitrust clearances and approvals); integrate or separate businesses; realize the full extent of the benefits, cost savings or synergies presented by strategic transactions; effectively implement control environment processes with employees joining us as a result of a transaction; minimize adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; achieve accurate estimates of fair value; minimize potential loss of customers or key employees; and minimize indemnities and potential disputes with buyers, sellers and strategic partners. in addition, execution or oversight of strategic transactions may result in the diversion of management attention from our existing business and may present financial, managerial and operational risks. 19 table of contents with respect to acquisitions and joint ventures in particular, we are also exposed to potential risks based on our ability to conform standards, controls, policies and procedures, and business cultures; consolidate and streamline operations and infrastructures; identify and eliminate, as appropriate, redundant and underperforming operations and assets; manage inefficiencies associated with the integration of operations; and coordinate timely and ongoing compliance with antitrust and competition laws in the united states, the european union and other jurisdictions. joint ventures and similar strategic alliances pose additional risks, as we share ownership in both public and private companies and in some cases management responsibilities with one or more other parties whose objectives for the alliance may diverge from ours over time, who may not have the same priorities, strategies or resources as we do, or whose interpretation of applicable policies may differ from our own. strategic alliances we have entered into include our investments in jacobs douwe egberts and keurig dr pepper inc. transactions or ventures into which we enter might not meet our financial and non-financial control and compliance expectations or yield the anticipated benefits. depending on the nature of the business ventures, including whether they operate globally, these ventures could also be subject to many of the same risks we are, including political, economic, regulatory and compliance risks, currency exchange rate fluctuations, and volatility of commodity and other input prices. either partner might fail to recognize an alliance relationship that could expose the business to higher risk or make the venture not as productive as expected. furthermore, we may not be able to complete, on terms favorable to us, desired or proposed divestitures of businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or our growth or profitability targets. our divestiture activities, or related activities such as reorganizations, restructuring programs and transformation initiatives, may require us to recognize impairment charges or to take action to reduce costs that remain after we complete a divestiture. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may also affect our profitability. any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we could fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. the accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. these limitations include, among others, the possibility of human error, inadequacy or circumvention of controls and fraud. if we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or design and implement controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of our financial statements, including in connection with controls executed for us by third parties, we might fail to timely detect any misappropriation of corporate assets or inappropriate allocation or use of funds and could be unable to file accurate financial reports on a timely basis. as a result, our reputation, results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid global capital markets and volatile global economic conditions could limit our access to the global capital markets, reduce our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs. we access the long-term and short-term global capital markets to obtain financing. our financial performance, our short-and long-term debt credit ratings, interest rates, the stability of financial institutions with which we partner, the liquidity of the overall global capital markets and the state of the global economy, including the food industry, could affect our access to, and the availability or cost of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions and our ability to pay dividends in the future. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the global capital markets on terms we find acceptable. we regularly access the commercial paper markets in the united states and europe for ongoing funding requirements. a downgrade in our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect our ability to issue commercial paper. disruptions in the global commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the global credit markets also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. limitations on our ability to access the global capital markets, a reduction in our liquidity or an increase in our borrowing costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 20 table of contents volatility in the equity markets, interest rates, our participation in multiemployer pension plans and other factors could increase our costs relating to our employees' pensions. we sponsor defined benefit pension plans for a number of our employees throughout the world and also contribute to other employees' pensions under defined benefit plans that we do not sponsor. at the end of 2019 , the projected benefit obligation of the defined benefit pension plans we sponsor was $12.2 billion and plan assets were $11.5 billion . for defined benefit pension plans that we maintain, the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. our largest funded defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of investments, including equities and corporate and government debt. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which the plans operate and the market value of plan assets affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost and impact our future funding requirements. legislative and other governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans' benefits obligation. volatility in the global capital markets may increase the risk that we will be required to make additional cash contributions to these company-sponsored pension plans and recognize further increases in our net periodic pension cost. we also participate in multiemployer pension plans for certain u.s. union-represented employees. as a participating employer under multiemployer pension plans, we may owe more than the contributions we are required to make under the applicable collective bargaining agreements. for example, if we partially or completely withdraw from a multiemployer pension plan, we may be required to pay a partial or complete withdrawal liability. this withdrawal liability will generally increase if there is also a mass withdrawal of other participating employers or if the plan terminates. in 2018, we executed a complete withdrawal from the bakery and confectionery union and industry international pension fund (the "fund") and recorded a $429 million estimated withdrawal liability. on july 11, 2019, we received an undiscounted withdrawal liability assessment from the fund totaling $526 million requiring pro-rata monthly payments over 20 years and we recorded a $35 million final adjustment to reduce our withdrawal liability as of june 30, 2019. we began making monthly payments during the third quarter of 2019. as of december 31, 2019 , the remaining discounted withdrawal liability was $391 million , with $14 million recorded in other current liabilities and $377 million recorded in long-term other liabilities. see note 11, benefit plans , to the consolidated financial statements for more information on our multiemployer pension plans. a significant increase in our pension benefit obligations or funding requirements could curtail our ability to invest in the business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we face risks related to adequately protecting our valuable intellectual property rights. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable part of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by taking advantage of a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in various countries, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third-party misuses and infringement of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business and financial condition. we may be unaware of potential third-party claims of intellectual property infringement relating to our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert management's and other key personnel's attention from our business operations. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to pay monetary damages or enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products, which could include removal of existing products from sale. any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brand health, ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 21 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as we operate globally, we are primarily exposed to currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate market risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we principally utilize derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. for additional information on our derivative activity and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge our currency exchange, commodity price and interest rate exposures, see note 1, summary of significant accounting policies , and note 10, financial instruments . many of our non-u.s. subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates create volatility in our reported results as we translate the balance sheets, operating results and cash flows of these subsidiaries into the u.s. dollar for consolidated reporting purposes. the translation of non-u.s. dollar denominated balance sheets and statements of earnings of our subsidiaries into the u.s. dollar for consolidated reporting generally results in a cumulative translation adjustment to other comprehensive income within equity. a stronger u.s. dollar relative to other functional currencies adversely affects our consolidated earnings and net assets while a weaker u.s. dollar benefits our consolidated earnings and net assets. while we hedge significant forecasted currency exchange transactions as well as certain net assets of non-u.s. operations and other currency impacts, we cannot fully predict or eliminate volatility arising from changes in currency exchange rates on our consolidated financial results. see consolidated results of operations and results of operations by reportable segment under discussion and analysis of historical results for currency exchange effects on our financial results. for additional information on the impact of currency policies, recent currency devaluations and highly inflationary accounting on our financial condition and results of operations, also see note 1, summary of significant accounting policies currency translation and highly inflationary accounting . we also continually monitor the market for commodities that we use in our products. input costs may fluctuate widely due to international demand, weather conditions, government policy and regulation and unforeseen conditions. to manage input cost volatility, we enter into forward purchase agreements and other derivative financial instruments. we also pursue productivity and cost saving measures and take pricing actions when necessary to mitigate the impact of higher input costs on earnings. we regularly evaluate our variable and fixed-rate debt as well as current and expected interest rates in the markets in which we raise capital. our primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, corporate credit spreads, commercial paper rates as well as limited debt tied to london interbank offered rates ( libor ). the financial conduct authority in the united kingdom plans to phase out libor by the end of 2021. we do not anticipate a significant impact to our financial position from the planned phase out of libor given our current mix of variable and fixed-rate debt. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed-rate debt based on current and projected market conditions. our weighted-average interest rate on our total debt was 2.2% as of december 31, 2019 , down from 2.3% as of december 31, 2018 , primarily due to lower interest rates on commercial paper borrowings. beginning in 2018, we entered into new investment hedge derivative contracts, specifically, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forwards, to hedge certain investments in our non-u.s. operations against movements in exchange rates. see note 10, financial instruments , for more information on our derivative activity. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. the var analysis was done separately for our currency exchange, fixed income and commodity risk portfolios as of each quarter end during the periods presented below. the instruments included in the var computation were currency exchange forwards and options for currency exchange risk, debt and swaps for interest rate risk, and commodity forwards, futures and options for commodity risk. excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in non-u.s. subsidiaries, which the above-mentioned instruments are intended to hedge. 63 table of contents the var model assumes normal market conditions, a 95% confidence interval and a one-day holding period. a parametric delta-gamma approximation technique was used to determine the expected return distribution in interest rates, currencies and commodity prices for the purpose of calculating the fixed income, currency exchange and commodity var, respectively. the parameters used for estimating the expected return distributions were determined by observing interest rate, currency exchange and commodity price movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity and were valued accordingly in the var computation. as of december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 , the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our currency and commodity instruments, as calculated in the var model, were: pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/19 average high low at 12/31/19 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 86 $ 70 $ 97 $ 49 foreign currency rates $ 15 $ 19 $ 25 $ 15 commodity prices 11 13 14 11 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/18 average high low at 12/31/18 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 35 $ 33 $ 36 $ 27 foreign currency rates $ 19 $ 30 $ 39 $ 19 commodity prices 15 16 17 15 this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum expected daily loss, under the specified confidence interval and assuming normal market conditions, from adverse movements in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings we will incur, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 64 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. we operate in a highly competitive industry, which may affect our profitability. the food industry is intensely competitive. we compete based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain our market share. competition and customer pressures, however, also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other input cost increases. our results of operations will suffer if profit margins decrease, as a result of either a reduction in prices or increased input costs, and if we are unable to increase sales volumes to offset those profit margin decreases. we may also need to increase spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect existing market share or capture increased market share. the success of our investments is subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. as a result, our increased expenditures may not maintain or enhance market share and could result in lower profitability. our brand image may be challenged to compete against lower-priced private label items, particularly in times of economic downturns. retailers are increasingly offering private label products that compete with our products. consumers willingness to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products that appeal to consumers at the right price. it is also important that our products are perceived to be of a higher quality than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our products and those of store brands narrows, or if such difference in quality is perceived to have narrowed, then consumers may not buy our products. furthermore, during periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other economy brands, which could reduce sales volumes of our higher margin products or there could be a shift in our product mix to our lower margin offerings. if we are not able to maintain or improve our brand image, it could have a material affect on our market share and our profitability. 11 consolidation of retail customers may affect our operating margins and profitability. in addition, the loss of a significant customer could significantly affect our results of operations. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, continue to consolidate in the u.s., the eu and our other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power. these larger retailers are capable of operating with reduced inventories, they can resist price increases, and they demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. they also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. if we fail to respond to these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower our prices or increase our investments in marketing, any of which could adversely affect our profitability. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc., accounted for approximately 15% of our net revenues during 2007. during 2007, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 28% of our net revenues. the loss of any one of our top customers could have a material adverse affect on our sales. continuing increases in commodity costs may affect our profitability. we are a major purchaser of commodities including, dairy, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, nuts, meat products, and sugar and other sweeteners. we also use significant quantities of glass, plastic and cardboard to package our products, and natural gas for our factories and warehouses. price volatility for commodities we purchase has increased due to conditions outside of our control, including fluctuations in commodities markets, currency fluctuations and changes in governmental agricultural programs. if we are unable to increase our prices to offset increased commodity costs or achieve cost efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution, our profitability could suffer. our product sales depend on our ability to predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and develop and offer new products rapidly enough to meet those changes. consumer preferences for food products change continually. for example, recently, consumers have been increasingly focused on health and wellness with respect to the food products they buy. as a result, over the last several years our products have been subject to scrutiny relating to genetically modified organisms and the health implications of obesity and trans-fatty acids. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to those preferences. we have been and will continue to be affected by publicity concerning the health implications of our products, some of which could negatively influence consumer perception and acceptance of our products and marketing programs. furthermore, if we do not succeed in offering products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease, and our profitability will suffer. we must be able to distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we are unable to accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales will decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer a sufficient array of products to satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to successfully innovate products across a multitude of product categories or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products will decrease and our profitability could suffer. our international operations are subject to additional risks. approximately 42% of our 2007 sales and approximately 39% of our 2006 sales were generated in foreign countries. our international operations are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in currency values, unpredictability of foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, unexpected changes in local regulations and laws in foreign countries and the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions. in addition, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. moreover, economic changes, terrorist activity, political unrest and other economic or political uncertainties may interrupt or otherwise negatively affect our business. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, either of which could adversely affect our profitability. we may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that would strategically fit our business objectives. if we are unable to complete, successfully integrate and develop these acquisition candidates to realize revenue growth and cost savings, our 12 financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, from time to time, we divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives, or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. our profitability may be affected by either gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from those businesses. also, we may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures which may reduce our profitability. finally, our acquisition or divestiture activities may present financial, managerial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings, potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. any of these activities could affect our product sales, financial conditions and results of operations. product recalls, injuries caused by products or other legal claims could affect our reputation and profitability. selling products for human consumption involves inherent legal risks. we could be required to recall products due to product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our advertising could be the target of claims of false or deceptive advertising. a significant product liability or other legal judgment against us, or a widespread product recall may adversely affect our profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation and brand image. we operate in a highly regulated environment. food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign agencies. new regulations and changes to existing regulations are issued regularly. increased governmental regulation of the food industry, such as proposed requirements designed to enhance food safety or to regulate imported ingredients, could increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. changes in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs. we maintain revolving credit facilities that historically have been used to support the issuance of commercial paper. a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term debt rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue or it could raise our borrowing costs, or both. volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase our pension costs. at the end of 2007, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $10.2 billion and assets were $11.0 billion. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can (i) affect the level of plan funding; (ii) cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost; and (iii) increase our future funding requirements. in addition, if we divest certain businesses, we may be required to increase future contributions to the benefit plans and the related net periodic pension cost could increase. a significant increase in our funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as kraft operates globally, we use certain financial instruments to manage our foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk-management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain foreign currency and commodity price risk management policies that principally use derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we occasionally use related futures to cross-hedge a commodity exposure, however we are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use financial instruments for speculative purposes. refer to notes 1 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further details of our foreign currency and commodity price risk management policies and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge those exposures. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our foreign currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. we included our debt; short-term investments; foreign currency forwards, swaps and options; and commodity futures, forwards and options in our var computation. anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to hedge, were excluded from the computation. we made the var estimates assuming normal market conditions, using a 95% confidence interval. we used a variance/co-variance model to determine the observed interrelationships between movements in interest rates and various currencies. these interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate and forward currency rate movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2007 and 2006, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of foreign currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity, and were valued accordingly in the var computation. 43 the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, under normal market conditions and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our foreign currency and commodity instruments under normal market conditions, as calculated in the var model, were (in millions): pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/07 average high low at 12/31/07 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 94 $ 49 $ 94 $ 23 foreign currency rates $ 17 $ 22 $ 28 $ 17 commodity prices 27 19 27 15 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/06 average high low at 12/31/06 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 26 $ 28 $ 31 $ 26 foreign currency rates $ 25 $ 27 $ 36 $ 23 commodity prices 3 6 9 3 this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum probable daily loss from adverse movements in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices under normal market conditions. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings to be incurred by kraft, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in such market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in such market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 44risk factors 11 risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. we operate in a highly competitive industry, which may affect our profitability. the food industry is intensely competitive. we compete based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain our market share. competition and customer pressures, however, also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other input cost increases. our results of operations will suffer if profit margins decrease, as a result of either a reduction in prices or increased input costs, and if we are unable to increase sales volumes to offset those profit margin decreases. we may also need to increase spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect existing market share or capture increased market share. the success of our investments is subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. as a result, our increased expenditures may not maintain or enhance market share and could result in lower profitability. our brand image may be challenged to compete against lower-priced private label items, particularly in times of economic downturns. retailers are increasingly offering private label products that compete with our products. consumers willingness to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products that appeal to consumers at the right price. it is also important that our products are perceived to be of a higher quality than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in quality between our products and those of store brands narrows, or if such difference in quality is perceived to have narrowed, then consumers may not buy our products. furthermore, during periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other economy brands, which could reduce sales volumes of our higher margin products or there could be a shift in our product mix to our lower margin offerings. if we are not able to maintain or improve our brand image, it could have a material affect on our market share and our profitability. 11 consolidation of retail customers may affect our operating margins and profitability. in addition, the loss of a significant customer could significantly affect our results of operations. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, continue to consolidate in the u.s., the eu and our other major markets. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power. these larger retailers are capable of operating with reduced inventories, they can resist price increases, and they demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. they also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. if we fail to respond to these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower our prices or increase our investments in marketing, any of which could adversely affect our profitability. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc., accounted for approximately 15% of our net revenues during 2007. during 2007, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 28% of our net revenues. the loss of any one of our top customers could have a material adverse affect on our sales. continuing increases in commodity costs may affect our profitability. we are a major purchaser of commodities including, dairy, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, nuts, meat products, and sugar and other sweeteners. we also use significant quantities of glass, plastic and cardboard to package our products, and natural gas for our factories and warehouses. price volatility for commodities we purchase has increased due to conditions outside of our control, including fluctuations in commodities markets, currency fluctuations and changes in governmental agricultural programs. if we are unable to increase our prices to offset increased commodity costs or achieve cost efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution, our profitability could suffer. our product sales depend on our ability to predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and develop and offer new products rapidly enough to meet those changes. consumer preferences for food products change continually. for example, recently, consumers have been increasingly focused on health and wellness with respect to the food products they buy. as a result, over the last several years our products have been subject to scrutiny relating to genetically modified organisms and the health implications of obesity and trans-fatty acids. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to those preferences. we have been and will continue to be affected by publicity concerning the health implications of our products, some of which could negatively influence consumer perception and acceptance of our products and marketing programs. furthermore, if we do not succeed in offering products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease, and our profitability will suffer. we must be able to distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we are unable to accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales will decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer a sufficient array of products to satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to successfully innovate products across a multitude of product categories or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products will decrease and our profitability could suffer. our international operations are subject to additional risks. approximately 42% of our 2007 sales and approximately 39% of our 2006 sales were generated in foreign countries. our international operations are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in currency values, unpredictability of foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, unexpected changes in local regulations and laws in foreign countries and the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions. in addition, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. moreover, economic changes, terrorist activity, political unrest and other economic or political uncertainties may interrupt or otherwise negatively affect our business. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, either of which could adversely affect our profitability. we may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that would strategically fit our business objectives. if we are unable to complete, successfully integrate and develop these acquisition candidates to realize revenue growth and cost savings, our 12 financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, from time to time, we divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives, or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. our profitability may be affected by either gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from those businesses. also, we may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures which may reduce our profitability. finally, our acquisition or divestiture activities may present financial, managerial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings, potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. any of these activities could affect our product sales, financial conditions and results of operations. product recalls, injuries caused by products or other legal claims could affect our reputation and profitability. selling products for human consumption involves inherent legal risks. we could be required to recall products due to product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our advertising could be the target of claims of false or deceptive advertising. a significant product liability or other legal judgment against us, or a widespread product recall may adversely affect our profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation and brand image. we operate in a highly regulated environment. food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign agencies. new regulations and changes to existing regulations are issued regularly. increased governmental regulation of the food industry, such as proposed requirements designed to enhance food safety or to regulate imported ingredients, could increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. changes in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs. we maintain revolving credit facilities that historically have been used to support the issuance of commercial paper. a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term debt rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue or it could raise our borrowing costs, or both. volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase our pension costs. at the end of 2007, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $10.2 billion and assets were $11.0 billion. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can (i) affect the level of plan funding; (ii) cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost; and (iii) increase our future funding requirements. in addition, if we divest certain businesses, we may be required to increase future contributions to the benefit plans and the related net periodic pension cost could increase. a significant increase in our funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as kraft operates globally, we use certain financial instruments to manage our foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk-management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain foreign currency and commodity price risk management policies that principally use derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we occasionally use related futures to cross-hedge a commodity exposure, however we are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use financial instruments for speculative purposes. refer to notes 1 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further details of our foreign currency and commodity price risk management policies and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge those exposures. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our foreign currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. we included our debt; short-term investments; foreign currency forwards, swaps and options; and commodity futures, forwards and options in our var computation. anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to hedge, were excluded from the computation. we made the var estimates assuming normal market conditions, using a 95% confidence interval. we used a variance/co-variance model to determine the observed interrelationships between movements in interest rates and various currencies. these interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate and forward currency rate movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2007 and 2006, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of foreign currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity, and were valued accordingly in the var computation. 43 the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, under normal market conditions and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our foreign currency and commodity instruments under normal market conditions, as calculated in the var model, were (in millions): pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/07 average high low at 12/31/07 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 94 $ 49 $ 94 $ 23 foreign currency rates $ 17 $ 22 $ 28 $ 17 commodity prices 27 19 27 15 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/06 average high low at 12/31/06 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 26 $ 28 $ 31 $ 26 foreign currency rates $ 25 $ 27 $ 36 $ 23 commodity prices 3 6 9 3 this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum probable daily loss from adverse movements in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices under normal market conditions. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings to be incurred by kraft, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in such market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in such market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 44risk factors 10 risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. we operate in a highly competitive industry, which may affect our profitability. the food industry is intensely competitive. we compete based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain our market share. competition and customer pressures, however, also may restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other input cost increases. our results of operations will suffer if profit margins decrease, as a result of either a reduction in prices or increased input costs, and if we are unable to increase sales volumes to offset those profit margin decreases. we may also need to increase spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect existing market share or capture increased market share. the success of our investments is subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. as a result, our increased expenditures may not maintain or enhance market share and could result in lower profitability. our brands may be challenged to compete against lower-priced private label products, particularly in times of economic downturns. retailers are increasingly offering private label products that compete with some of our products. consumers willingness to purchase our products will depend upon our ability to offer products that appeal to consumers at the right price. it is also important that our products provide higher value and / or quality to our customers than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in value or quality between our products and those of store brands narrows, or if such difference in quality is perceived to have narrowed, then consumers may not buy our products. furthermore, during periods of economic uncertainty, such as we are currently experiencing, consumers tend to purchase more private label or other economy brands, which could reduce sales volumes of our higher margin products or there could be a shift in our product mix to our lower margin offerings. if we are not able to maintain or improve our brand image or value proposition, it could have a material effect on our market share and our profitability. the consolidation of retail customers, the loss of a significant customer, or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could affect our operating margins, our profitability, our sales and our results of operations. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the u.s., the eu and our other major markets, continue to consolidate. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power. these larger retailers, capable of operating with reduced inventories, can resist price increases and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. they also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. the consolidation of retail customers also increases the risk that a severe adverse impact on their business operations could have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. also, our retail customers may be affected by the current economic environment. for example, they may not have access to funds or financing and that could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previous purchases. a few of our customers are material to our business and operations. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc., accounted for approximately 16% of our net revenues during 2008. during 2008, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 27% of our net revenues. there can be no assurance that all significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities that they have in the past. the loss of any one of our significant customers or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. increased price volatility for commodities we purchase may affect our profitability. we are a major purchaser of commodities, including dairy, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, nuts, meat products, and sugar and other sweeteners. we also use significant quantities of plastic, glass and cardboard to package our products, and natural gas for our factories and warehouses. price volatility for commodities we purchase has increased due to conditions outside of our control, including the current economic environment, currency fluctuations, 10 availability of supply, weather, consumer demand and changes in governmental agricultural programs. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, continued volatility in the prices of commodities we purchase could increase the costs of our products and services, and our profitability could suffer. our product sales depend on our ability to predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, and our ability to develop and offer new products rapidly enough to meet those changes. consumer preferences for food products change continually. for example, recently, consumers have been increasingly focused on health and wellness with respect to the food products they buy. as a result, over the last several years our products have been subject to scrutiny relating to the health implications of obesity and trans-fatty acids. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to those preferences. we have been and will continue to be affected by publicity concerning the health implications of our products, some of which could negatively influence consumer perception and acceptance of our products and marketing programs. furthermore, if we do not succeed in offering products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease, and our profitability could suffer. we must be able to distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we are unable to accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer a sufficient array of products to satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to successfully expand our product offerings across a multitude of product categories or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products will decrease and our profitability could suffer. our international operations are subject to additional risks. we generated approximately 49% of our 2008 sales, 43% of our 2007 sales and 40% of our 2006 sales in foreign countries. our international operations are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in currency values, unpredictability of foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, unexpected changes in local regulations and laws, and the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions. in addition, foreign jurisdictions could impose tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, and other similar restrictions on our international sales. moreover, our international business operations could be interrupted and negatively affected by economic changes, terrorist activity, political unrest, and other economic or political uncertainties. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, either of which could adversely affect our profitability. if we are unable to expand our operations in certain emerging markets, our growth rate could be negatively affected. in 2007, we unveiled our strategies to grow our international operations with increased focus on four emerging markets: brazil, russia, china and other regions of southeast asia. the success of our international operations depends in part on our ability to grow our business in these and other emerging markets. in some cases, emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions. in addition, emerging markets are becoming more competitive as other international companies grow globally and local, low cost manufacturers expand their production capacities. if we are unable to increase our business in emerging markets, our market share and profitability could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures or successfully integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that would strategically fit our business objectives. if we are unable to complete, successfully integrate and develop these acquisition candidates to realize revenue growth and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, from time to time, we divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives, or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. our profitability may be affected by either gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from those businesses. also, we may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures which may reduce our profitability. finally, our acquisition or divestiture activities may present financial, managerial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings, potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. any of these activities could affect our product sales, financial conditions and results of operations. 11 business process improvement initiatives to simplify and harmonize our business processes may fail to operate as designed and intended. we regularly implement business process improvement initiatives to simplify and harmonize our systems processes and to optimize our performance. our current business process initiatives include, but are not limited to, the kraft europe reorganization, the delivery of an sap enterprise resource planning application, and the outsourcing of certain administrative functions. if our business process improvement initiatives fail, our ability to improve existing operations and support future growth could be delayed. product recalls, injuries caused by products or other legal claims could affect our sales, reputation and profitability. selling products for human consumption involves inherent legal risks. we could be required to recall products due to product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our advertising could be the target of claims of false or deceptive advertising. a significant product liability or other legal judgment against us, or a widespread product recall may adversely affect our profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation and profitability. we operate in a highly regulated environment. food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign agencies. new regulations and changes to existing regulations are issued regularly. increased governmental regulation of the food industry, such as proposed requirements designed to enhance food safety or to regulate imported ingredients, could increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. the effects of the present economic environment on the credit markets and changes in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity. our $4.5 billion revolving credit facility supports our commercial paper issuances. we use our commercial paper program, in addition to international credit lines, for daily funding requirements. the present economic environment, in general, has restricted access to the credit markets. if the present economic environment worsens, our access to commercial paper, our ability to refinance our credit facility by the time it expires in april 2010 and our ability to secure additional long or short-term financing, on terms and within a time period acceptable to us, could negatively affect our liquidity. in addition, a downgrade in our credit ratings would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, and it could raise our borrowing costs for both short-term and long-term debt offerings. volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase our pension costs and have a negative impact on our operating results and profitability. at the end of 2008, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $9.3 billion and assets were $7.0 billion. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can (i) affect the level of plan funding; (ii) cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost; and (iii) increase our future funding requirements. in addition, if we divest certain businesses, we may be required to increase future contributions to the benefit plans and the related net periodic pension cost could increase. we expect to make approximately $390 million in contributions to our pension plans in 2009, which is approximately $170 million more than we made in 2008. we also expect that our net pension cost will increase by approximately $200 million to approximately $440 million in 2009. the current economic environment increases the risk that we may be required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net pension cost beyond 2009. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as kraft operates globally, we use certain financial instruments to manage our foreign currency exchange rate and commodity price risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain foreign currency and commodity price risk management policies that principally use derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we also sell commodity futures to unprice future purchase commitments, and we occasionally use related futures to cross-hedge a commodity exposure. we are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use financial instruments for speculative purposes. refer to note 1, summary of significant accounting policies, and note 12, financial instruments , to the consolidated financial statements for further details of our foreign currency and commodity price risk management policies and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge those exposures. in october 2008, one of our counterparties, lehman brothers commercial corporation, filed for bankruptcy. consequently, we wrote off an insignificant asset related to derivatives held with them. this did not have a significant impact on our foreign currency risk management program. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our foreign currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. we included our debt; short-term investments; foreign currency forwards, swaps and options; and commodity futures, forwards and options in our var computation. anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to hedge, were excluded from the computation. we made the var estimates assuming normal market conditions, using a 95% confidence interval. we used a variance / co-variance model to determine the observed interrelationships between movements in interest rates and various currencies. these interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate and forward currency rate movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2008 and 2007, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of foreign currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity, and were valued accordingly in the var computation. the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, under normal market conditions and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our foreign currency and commodity instruments under normal market conditions, as calculated in the var model, were (in millions): pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/08 average high low at 12/31/08 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 175 $ 161 $ 216 $ 106 foreign currency rates $ 19 $ 15 $ 21 $ 8 commodity prices 43 66 91 43 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/07 average high low at 12/31/07 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 94 $ 49 $ 94 $ 23 foreign currency rates $ 17 $ 22 $ 28 $ 17 commodity prices 27 19 27 15 this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum probable daily loss from adverse movements in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices under normal market conditions. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings to be incurred by kraft, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in such market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in such market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 47risk factors 10 risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. we operate in a highly competitive industry, which may affect our profitability. the food industry is highly competitive. we compete based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain our market share. competition and customer pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in 10 response to commodity and other input cost increases. our results of operations will suffer if profit margins decrease as a result of a reduction in prices, increased input costs or other factors, and if we are unable to increase sales volumes to offset those profit margin decreases. retailers are increasingly offering retailer brands that compete with some of our products. it is important that our products provide higher value and / or quality to our consumers than less expensive alternatives. if the difference in value or quality between our products and those of retailer brands narrows, or if the perceived difference in quality narrows, then consumers may not buy our products. furthermore, during periods of economic uncertainty, such as we continue to experience, consumers tend to purchase more retailer brands or other economy brands, which could reduce sales volumes of our products or shift our product mix to our lower margin offerings. if we are not able to maintain or improve our brand image or value proposition, it could have a material effect on our market share and our profitability. we may also need to increase spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect existing market share or increase market share. the success of our investments is subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. as a result, our increased expenditures may not maintain or enhance market share and could result in lower profitability. the consolidation of retail customers, the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could affect our operating margins, our profitability, our net revenues and our results of operations. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the u.s., the european union and our other major markets, continue to consolidate. these consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power. these larger retailers, capable of operating with reduced inventories, can resist price increases and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. in addition, they may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own retailer brands. the consolidation of retail customers also increases the risk that a severe adverse impact on their business operations could have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. also, our retail customers may be affected by recent economic conditions. for example, they may not have access to funds or financing and that could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previous purchases. during 2009, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 27% of our net revenues with our largest customer wal-mart stores, inc., accounting for approximately 16% of our net revenues. there can be no assurance that all significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities that they have in the past. the loss of any one of our significant customers or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and results of operations. increased price volatility for commodities we purchase may affect our profitability. we are a major purchaser of commodities, including dairy, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, nuts, meat products, and sugar and other sweeteners. in addition, we use significant quantities of plastic, glass and cardboard to package our products, and natural gas for our factories and warehouses. price volatility for commodities we purchase has increased due to conditions outside of our control, including recent economic conditions, currency fluctuations, availability of supply, weather, consumer demand and changes in governmental agricultural programs. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, continued volatility in the prices of commodities we purchase could increase the costs of our products and services, and our profitability could suffer. our product sales depend on our ability to predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, and our ability to develop and offer new products rapidly enough to meet those changes. consumer preferences for food products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to those preferences. if we do not succeed in offering products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer. we must be able to distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we are unable to accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer a sufficient array of products to satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product 11 categories or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products will decrease and our profitability could suffer. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. for example, recently, consumers have been increasingly focused on health and wellness, including weight management and sodium consumption. although we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, we may not be successful in these efforts. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could decrease demand for our products and adversely affect our profitability. as a multinational corporation, our operations are subject to additional risks. we generated approximately 48% of our 2009 net revenues, 49% of our 2008 net revenues and 43% of our 2007 net revenues outside the u.s. the percentage of the combined company sales generated outside of the u.s. will increase in 2010, due to the acquisition of cadbury and with the anticipated sale of our frozen pizza business. with operations in over 70 countries, our operations are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations, including: fluctuations in currency values, unpredictability of foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with a variety of local regulations and laws, changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws, difficulties enforcing intellectual property and contractual rights in certain jurisdictions, and greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles. in addition, certain jurisdictions could impose tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, and other similar restrictions on our sales. moreover, our business operations could be interrupted and negatively affected by economic changes, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, and other economic or political uncertainties. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, either of which could adversely affect our profitability. if we are unable to expand our operations in certain emerging markets, our growth rate could be negatively affected. in 2007, we unveiled our strategies to grow our operations with increased focus on emerging markets, especially brazil, russia, china and other regions of southeast asia. the success of our operations depends in part on our ability to grow our business in these and other emerging markets. in some cases, emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions. in addition, emerging markets are becoming more competitive as other companies grow globally and local low cost manufacturers expand their production capacities. if we are unable to increase our business in emerging markets, our market share and profitability could be adversely affected. we may not be able to consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures successfully or integrate acquired businesses successfully. from time to time, we may evaluate acquisition candidates that would strategically fit our business objectives. if we are unable to complete acquisitions, or integrate successfully and develop these businesses to realize revenue growth and cost savings, including recently acquired cadbury, our financial results could be adversely affected. in addition, from time to time, we divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives, or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. our profitability may be affected by either gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses. also, we may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures which may reduce our profitability. finally, our acquisition or divestiture activities may present financial, managerial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings, potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. any of these activities could affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 12 business process improvement initiatives to harmonize our systems and processes may fail to operate as designed and intended. we regularly implement business process improvement initiatives to harmonize our systems and processes and to optimize our performance. our current business process initiatives include, but are not limited to, our reorganization of our european operations, the delivery of a sap enterprise resource planning application, and the outsourcing of certain administrative functions. if our business process improvement initiatives fail, our ability to improve existing operations, achieve anticipated cost savings and support future growth could be delayed. changes in our debt ratings and the effects of volatile economic conditions on the credit market could adversely affect our borrowing costs and liquidity. our debt ratings depend generally on the amount of our debt and our ability to service our debt. a downgrade in our debt ratings, including as a result of incurring additional debt, would, and disruptions in the commercial paper market or the effects of other volatile economic conditions on the credit market could, reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue. in addition, any of these risks could raise our borrowing costs for both short-term and long-term debt offerings. legal claims, product recalls or other regulatory enforcement actions could affect our sales, reputation and profitability. as a large food company that operates in a highly regulated, highly competitive environment with growing retailer power and a constantly evolving legal and regulatory framework around the world, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our sales, reputation and profitability. further, selling products for human consumption involves inherent risks. we could be required to recall products due to product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our marketing could be the target of claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment or a related regulatory enforcement action against us, or a widespread product recall, may adversely affect our profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could adversely affect our sales, reputation and profitability. increased regulation could increase our costs and affect our profitability. food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign agencies. new regulations and changes to existing regulations are issued regularly. increased governmental regulation of the food industry, such as proposed requirements designed to enhance food safety or to regulate imported ingredients, could increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase our pension costs and have a negative impact on our operating results and profitability. at the end of 2009, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $10.6 billion and assets were $8.9 billion. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can (i) affect the level of plan funding; (ii) cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost; and (iii) increase our future funding requirements. in addition, if we divest certain businesses, we may be required to increase future contributions to the benefit plans and the related net periodic pension cost could increase. we expect to make approximately $240 million in contributions to our pension plans in 2010, which is approximately $380 million less than we made in 2009. we also expect that our net pension cost will increase by approximately $50 million to approximately $440 million in 2010. as this disclosure was made as of december 31, 2009, it does not reflect the impacts of our recent acquisition and divestiture activity. additionally, volatile economic conditions increase the risk that we may be required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net pension cost beyond 2010. 13 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as we operate globally, we use certain financial instruments to manage our foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain foreign currency, commodity price and interest rate risk management policies that principally use derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we also sell commodity futures to unprice future purchase commitments, and we occasionally use related futures to cross-hedge a commodity exposure. we are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use financial instruments for speculative purposes. refer to note 1, summary of significant accounting policies, and note 12, financial instruments , to the consolidated financial statements for further details of our foreign currency, commodity price and interest rate risk management policies and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge those exposures. in october 2008, one of our counterparties, lehman brothers commercial corporation, filed for bankruptcy. consequently, we wrote off an insignificant asset related to derivatives held with them. this did not have a significant impact on our foreign currency risk management program. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our foreign currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. we included our debt; short-term investments; foreign currency forwards, swaps and options; and commodity futures, forwards and options in our var computation. anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to hedge, were excluded from the computation. we made the var estimates assuming normal market conditions, using a 95% confidence interval. we used a variance / co-variance model to determine the observed interrelationships between movements in interest rates and various currencies. these interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate and forward currency rate movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2009 and 2008, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of foreign currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity, and were valued accordingly in the var computation. 53 as of december 31, 2009, the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, under normal market conditions and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our foreign currency and commodity instruments under normal market conditions, as calculated in the var model, were (in millions): pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/09 average high low at 12/31/09 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 123 $ 175 $ 239 $ 114 foreign currency rates $ 8 $ 11 $ 15 $ 8 commodity prices 31 30 36 24 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/08 average high low at 12/31/08 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 175 $ 161 $ 216 $ 106 foreign currency rates $ 19 $ 15 $ 21 $ 8 commodity prices 43 66 91 43 this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum probable daily loss from adverse movements in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices under normal market conditions. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings to be incurred by kraft foods, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in such market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in such market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 54risk factors 10 executive officers of the registrant the following are our executive officers as of february 28, 2011: name age title irene b. rosenfeld 57 chairman and chief executive officer david a. brearton 50 executive vice president, operations and business services michael a. clarke 46 executive vice president and president, kraft foods europe marc s. firestone 51 executive vice president, corporate and legal affairs and general counsel sanjay khosla 59 executive vice president and president, developing markets karen j. may 52 executive vice president, global human resources timothy r. mclevish 55 executive vice president and chief financial officer sam b. rovit 53 executive vice president, strategy jean e. spence 53 executive vice president, research, development and quality w. anthony vernon 55 executive vice president and president, kraft foods north america mary beth west 48 executive vice president and chief category and marketing officer 8 ms. rosenfeld was appointed chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors of kraft foods in june 2006 and chairman of the board in march 2007. prior to that, she had been chairman and chief executive officer of frito-lay, a division of pepsico, inc., a food and beverage company, from september 2004 to june 2006. previously, ms. rosenfeld was employed continuously by kraft foods, and its predecessor, general foods corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including president of kraft foods north america and, before that, president of operations, technology, information systems of kraft foods canada, mexico, and puerto rico. she is also a trustee of cornell university. mr. brearton was appointed as executive vice president, operations and business services effective january 1, 2008. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, global business services and strategy from april 2006 to december 2007 and as senior vice president of business process simplification and as corporate controller from february 2005 to april 2006. he previously served as a senior vice president, finance for kraft foods international. mr. brearton joined kraft foods in 1984. mr. brearton also serves on the board of directors of feeding america. mr. clarke joined kraft foods as president, kraft foods europe on january 2, 2009 and was appointed executive vice president and president, kraft foods europe on january 27, 2009. prior to joining kraft foods, mr. clarke spent 12 years with the coca-cola company, a beverage company, most recently serving as president of the northwest europe and nordics businesses from august 2005 to december 2008 and as president of the south pacific and korea businesses from march 2000 to july 2005. mr. clarke also serves on the advisory board of the inspire foundation. mr. firestone was appointed as executive vice president, corporate and legal affairs and general counsel in october 2006. he previously served as kraft foods executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary from november 2003 to october 2006. prior to joining kraft foods in 2003, mr. firestone served as senior vice president and general counsel of philip morris international, a tobacco company. mr. firestone also serves on the board of directors of unilife corporation. mr. khosla was appointed as executive vice president and president, developing markets effective august 1, 2010. prior to that, he served as executive vice president and president, kraft foods international from january 2007 to july 2010. before joining kraft foods, he served as the managing director of fonterra brands, a dairy company, from 2004 to 2006. previously, mr. khosla spent 27 years with unilever, a consumer products company, in india, london and europe. mr. khosla also serves on the boards of directors of best buy co., inc. and niit ltd. and is a trustee of the goodman theater company in chicago. ms. may was appointed as executive vice president, global human resources in october 2005. prior to that, she had been corporate vice president, human resources for baxter international inc., a healthcare company, since february 2001. ms. may also serves on the board of directors of mb financial inc. mr. mclevish was appointed as executive vice president and chief financial officer in october 2007. prior to that, he had been senior vice president and chief financial officer at ingersoll-rand company limited, an industrial company, since june 2002. mr. mclevish also serves on the board of directors of kennametal inc. mr. rovit was appointed executive vice president, strategy effective february 1, 2011. prior to joining kraft foods, he served as a director of bain &amp; co., a management consulting firm, from january 2008 to january 2011 and from 1988 to june 2005. mr. rovit served as president, chief executive officer and director of swift &amp; company, a meat processing company, from june 2005 to july 2007. mr. rovit also serves on the boards of directors of mrc, inc. and j. w. saxe memorial fund. ms. spence was appointed as executive vice president, research, development and quality in january 2004. prior to that, ms. spence served as senior vice president, research and development, kraft foods north america from august 2003 to january 2004 and senior vice president of worldwide quality, scientific affairs and compliance for kraft foods north america from november 2001 to august 2003. she joined kraft foods in 1981. ms. spence also serves on the board of directors of international life sciences institute. mr. vernon joined kraft foods as executive vice president and president, kraft foods north america in august 2009. prior to that, he was the healthcare industry partner of ripplewood holdings inc., a private equity firm, since 9 2006. mr. vernon spent 23 years with johnson &amp; johnson, a pharmaceutical company, in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as company group chairman of depuy inc., an orthopedics company and subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson, from 2004 to 2005. mr. vernon also serves on the board of directors of medivation, inc. ms. west was appointed as executive vice president and chief category and marketing officer effective august 1, 2010. previously, she served as executive vice president and chief marketing officer from october 2007 to july 2010, and as group vice president for kraft foods and president of the north america beverages sector from 2005 to october 2007. ms. west joined kraft foods in 1986. ms. west also serves on the board of directors of j.c. penney co., inc. and is a member of the executive leadership council. we adopted the kraft foods code of conduct, which qualifies as a code of ethics under item 406 of regulation s-k. the code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. our code of ethics is available free of charge on our web site at www.kraftfoodscompany.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: corporate secretary, kraft foods inc., three lakes drive, northfield, il 60093. we will disclose any waiver we grant to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of ethics, on our web site at www.kraftfoodscompany.com . in addition, we adopted corporate governance guidelines, charters for each of the board five standing committees and the code of business conduct and ethics for directors. all of these materials are available on our web site at www.kraftfoodscompany.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder requesting a copy by writing to: corporate secretary, kraft foods inc., three lakes drive, northfield, il 60093. available information our internet address is www.kraftfoodscompany.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. you can access our filings with the sec by visiting www.kraftfoodscompany.com . the information on our web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. you can also read and copy any document that we file, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for information on the operation of the public reference room. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including kraft foods, that are electronically filed with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food industry is highly competitive. we compete based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. we may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures in order to maintain our market share. competition and customer pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to 10 commodity and other cost increases. we may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect or increase market share. these expenditures are subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. despite these expenditures, we may not successfully maintain or enhance market share. if we reduce prices or increase costs, but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset those changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. maintaining our reputation and brand image is essential to our business success. many of our brands are iconic, with worldwide recognition. our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we seek to maintain, extend and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to such restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers confidence and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children. these restrictions may limit our ability to maintain, extend and expand our brand image as the media and communications environment continues to evolve. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we must leverage our value proposition to compete against retailer brands and other economy brands. retailers are increasingly offering retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. our products must provide higher value and / or quality to our consumers than less expensive alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty such as those we continue to experience. consumers may not buy our products if the difference in value or quality between our products and retailer or other economy brands narrows or if consumers perceive a narrowing. if consumers prefer retailer or other economy brands then we could lose market share or sales volumes or shift our product mix could shift to lower margin offerings. these effects could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the consolidation of retail customers could adversely affect us. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the u.s., the european union and our other major markets, continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers on which we can rely for business. consolidation also produces large, more sophisticated retail customers that can resist price increases and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs or specifically tailored products. in addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. further retail consolidation may materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers do not have access to sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or refuse to pay us for previous purchases. changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers could adversely affect us. during 2010, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 26% of our net revenues with our largest customer wal-mart stores, inc., accounting for approximately 14% of our net revenues. there can be no assurance that all significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities or on the same terms as in the past. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 11 disputes with significant suppliers, including regarding pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. commodity and other input prices are volatile and may rise significantly. we purchase large quantities of commodities, including dairy, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, nuts, meat products, and sugar and other sweeteners. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of plastic, glass and cardboard to package our products, and natural gas to operate our factories and warehouses. prices for commodities, other supplies and energy are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather, consumer demand and changes in governmental trade and agricultural programs. for example, unusually adverse weather conditions, such as the heat wave in the grain growing regions of russia and ukraine and recent severe drought in the grain growing regions of china, have contributed to rising wheat and corn costs in 2010 and we expect such conditions to continue in 2011. for 2010, our commodity costs were approximately $1.0 billion higher than 2009. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, and seek to hedge against price increases, continued volatility in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer. moreover, price increases to cover these increased costs may result in lower sales volumes. if we are not successful in our hedging activities, or if we are unable to price to cover increased costs, then commodity and other input price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. changes in regulations could increase our costs and affect our profitability. our activities in the united states and around the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. various federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations govern food production and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, tax and environmental matters. governing bodies regularly issue new regulations and changes to existing regulations. our need to comply with new or revised regulations or their interpretation and application, including proposed requirements designed to enhance food safety or to regulate imported ingredients, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. we are a large food company that operates in a highly regulated, highly competitive environment with growing retailer power and a constantly evolving legal and regulatory framework around the world. consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, the failure to maintain effective control environment processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. product recalls or other product liability claims could materially and adversely affect us. selling products for human consumption involves inherent risks. we could decide to, or be required to recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering. any of these events could adversely affect our reputation and product sales, financial condition or results of operations. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our marketing could be the target of claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment or a related regulatory enforcement action against us, or a widespread product recall, may materially and adversely affect our profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 12 we are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate in a global environment, which could affect our growth and financial performance. we generated approximately 57% of our 2010 net revenues, 49% of our 2009 net revenues and 50% of our 2008 net revenues outside the u.s. with operations in more than 75 countries, our operations are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the u.s., such as the foreign corrupt practices act, compliance with a variety of local regulations and laws, changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws, fluctuations in currency values, sudden changes in foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, difficulties enforcing intellectual property and contractual rights in certain jurisdictions, greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, effective and immediate implementation of control environment processes across our diverse operations, and imposition of more or new tariff, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our sales outside the u.s. moreover, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our operations in certain developing markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in developing markets, including brazil, china, india, mexico, russia and southeast asia. however, some developing markets have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than established markets. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in developing markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand their production capacities. our success in integrating cadbury operations and products, many of which have a strong presence in a number of developing markets, is critical to our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in developing markets, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. unanticipated business disruptions could affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks and information systems that support our ability consistently to provide our products to our customers. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like weather, natural disasters, fire, terrorism, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics, could damage or disrupt our operations, or our suppliers or co-manufacturers operations. if we are unable to respond to disruptions in our operations, whether by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or are unable to quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late or unable to deliver products to our customers. if that were to occur, our customers confidence in us and long-term demand for our products could decline. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, and offer new products to meet those changes. consumer preferences for food products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to consumer preferences. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer. 13 we must distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer an array of products sufficient to satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products will decrease and our profitability could suffer. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. for example, recently, consumers have been increasingly focused on health and wellness, including weight management and reducing sodium consumption. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may be unsuccessful in these efforts. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. increased or unanticipated costs or difficulties encountered in our continuing integration of cadbury could affect our results of operations. we continue to integrate the operations of our cadbury business into our existing business. we expect the anticipated synergies of integration to increase revenues and operating results through enhanced growth opportunities and increased cost savings. if we encounter difficulties in fully integrating the businesses, it could delay or we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including the expected increases in revenues and operating results. if the difficulties are significant, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. additionally, we expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining our operations, including implementation cash costs that we estimate will be approximately $1.5 billion in the first three years following completion of the acquisition. delays in integrating the businesses could cause such costs to be significantly higher than anticipated. we may not successfully complete proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, including cadbury, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, we may divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives, or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. we may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may affect our profitability. moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce our profitability. our acquisition or divestiture activities may present financial, managerial and operational risks. those risks include diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, effective and immediate implementation of control environment processes across our diverse employee population, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings, potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. any of these factors could affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our acquisition of cadbury and disposition of our frozen pizza business increased the portion of our assets, liabilities and earnings denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies, which increased our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. our financial results and capital ratios are now more sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates than in prior periods because a larger portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated into u.s. dollars for external reporting purposes. in addition, movements in foreign exchange rates can affect transaction costs because we source product ingredients from various countries. we may seek to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, but our efforts may not be successful. accordingly, a depreciation of non-u.s. dollar currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, or changes in the relative value of any two currencies that we use for transactions, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 14 business process improvement initiatives to harmonize our systems and processes may fail to operate as designed and intended. we regularly implement business process improvement initiatives designed to harmonize our systems and processes and improve our performance. significant current business process improvement initiatives include reorganization of our european operations, delivery of a sap enterprise resource planning application, and outsourcing certain administrative functions. our business process improvement initiatives may not be successful, or may interfere with our core business operations or divert management attention from those operations. if we are unable to improve existing operations, achieve anticipated cost savings and support future growth, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. downgrades in our credit ratings and other effects of volatile economic conditions on the credit market could reduce our liquidity or increase our borrowing costs and liquidity. our short- and long-term credit ratings affect our borrowing costs and access to financing. a downgrade in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper. we access the commercial paper market for regular funding requirements. disruptions in the commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the credit market also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and could raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase our pension costs and have a negative impact on our operating results and profitability. at the end of 2010, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $15.6 billion and assets were $13.3 billion. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost, and increase our future funding requirements. in addition, if we divest certain businesses, we may be required to increase future contributions to the benefit plans and the related net periodic pension cost could increase. we expect to make approximately $940 million in contributions to our pension plans in 2011, which is approximately $550 million more than we made in 2010. we also expect that our net pension cost will remain flat at approximately $530 million in 2011. volatile economic conditions increase the risk that we may be required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net pension cost beyond 2011. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as we operate globally, we use certain financial instruments to manage our foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain foreign currency, commodity price and interest rate risk management policies that principally use derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we also sell commodity futures to unprice future purchase commitments, and we occasionally use related futures to cross-hedge a commodity exposure. we are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use financial instruments for speculative purposes. refer to note 1, summary of significant accounting policies, and note 12, financial instruments , to the consolidated financial statements for further details of our foreign currency, commodity price and interest rate risk management policies and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge those exposures. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our foreign currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. we included our debt; foreign currency forwards and futures, swaps and options; and commodity futures, forwards and options in our var computation. anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to hedge, were excluded from the computation. we made the var estimates assuming normal market conditions, using a 95% confidence interval. we used a variance / co-variance model to determine the observed interrelationships between movements in interest rates and various currencies. these interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate and forward currency rate movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2010 and 2009, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of foreign currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity, and were valued accordingly in the var computation. 53 as of december 31, 2010, the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, under normal market conditions and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our foreign currency and commodity instruments under normal market conditions, as calculated in the var model, were (in millions): atm000000 atm000000 atm000000 atm000000 atm000000 atm000000 atm000000 atm000000 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/10 average high low at 12/31/10 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 237 $ 176 $ 237 $ 97 foreign currency rates $ 13 $ 8 $ 13 $ 4 commodity prices 34 22 34 9 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/09 average high low at 12/31/09 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 123 $ 175 $ 239 $ 114 foreign currency rates $ 8 $ 11 $ 15 $ 8 commodity prices 31 30 36 24 this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum probable daily loss from adverse movements in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices under normal market conditions. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings to be incurred by kraft foods, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in such market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in such market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 54risk factors 10 risk factors for certain risk factors relating to the proposed spin-off transaction. 4 significant acquisitions and divestitures cadbury acquisition: on february 2, 2010, we acquired 71.73% of cadbury limited ( cadbury ) and as of june 1, 2010, we owned 100% of all outstanding cadbury shares. the cadbury acquisition was valued at $18,547 million, or $17,503 million net of cash and cash equivalents. we incurred transaction related fees of $218 million in 2010 and $40 million in 2009, which we recorded in selling, general and administrative expense. we also incurred acquisition financing fees of $96 million in 2010, which were recorded in interest and other expenses, net. as a condition of our acquisition, the eu commission required that we divest certain cadbury confectionery operations in poland and romania. the divestitures were completed in the third quarter of 2010 and generated $342 million of sale proceeds. the impact of these divestitures was reflected as adjustments within the cadbury final purchase accounting. during 2010, cadbury contributed net revenues of $9,143 million and net earnings of $530 million from february 2, 2010 through december 31, 2010. we acquired cadbury to create a global snacks powerhouse and an unrivaled portfolio of brands people love. pizza divestiture : on march 1, 2010, we completed the sale of the assets of our north american frozen pizza business ( frozen pizza ) to nestl&eacute; usa, inc. ( nestl&eacute; ) for $3.7 billion. the frozen pizza business was a component of our u.s. convenient meals and canada &amp; n.a. foodservice segments. the sale included the digiorno , tombstone and jack brands in the u.s., the delissio brand in canada and the california pizza kitchen trademark license. it also included two wisconsin manufacturing facilities (medford and little chute) and the leases for the pizza depots and delivery trucks. approximately 3,600 of our employees transferred with the business to nestl&eacute;. as a result of the divestiture, we recorded a gain on discontinued operations of $1,596 million, or $0.92 per diluted share, in 2010. see note 3, acquisitions and divestitures , to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on these transactions. customers our five largest customers accounted for approximately 21% of our net revenues in 2011 compared with 23% in 2010 and 27% in 2009. our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 29% of our net revenues in 2011 compared with 31% in 2010 and 36% in 2009. our largest customer, wal-mart stores, inc., accounted for approximately 12% of our net revenues in 2011 compared with 13% in 2010 and 16% in 2009. seasonality demand for some of our products may be influenced by holidays, changes in seasons or other annual events. however, overall sales of our products are generally evenly balanced throughout the year due to the offsetting nature of demands for our diversified product portfolio. competition we face competition in all aspects of our business. competitors include large national and international companies and numerous local and regional companies. some competitors have different profit objectives and some international competitors are less susceptible to currency exchange rates. we also compete with generic products and retailer brands, wholesalers and cooperatives. we compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising and price. moreover, improving our market position or introducing a new product requires substantial advertising and promotional expenditures. distribution and marketing our products are generally sold to supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores, gasoline stations, drug stores, value stores and other retail food outlets. in general, the retail trade for food products is consolidating. we distribute our products through distribution centers, satellite warehouses, company-operated and public cold-storage facilities, depots and other facilities. we use a combination of warehouse delivery and direct store delivery and use services of independent sales offices and agents primarily in some of our international locations. our marketing efforts are conducted through three principal sets of activities: (i) consumer marketing in on-air, print, outdoor and digital media; (ii) consumer incentives such as coupons and contests; and (iii) trade promotions to support price features, displays and other merchandising of our products by our customers. 5 raw materials and packaging we purchase large quantities of commodities, including dairy, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, nuts, meat products, and sugar and other sweeteners. in addition, we use significant quantities of plastic, glass and cardboard to package our products, and natural gas for our factories and warehouses. we continuously monitor worldwide supply and cost trends of these commodities so we can act quickly to obtain ingredients and packaging needed for production. significant cost items in chocolate confectionery products are cocoa and sugar. we purchase cocoa and sugar on world markets, and their prices are affected by the quality and availability of supply and changes in the value of the pound sterling and the u.s. dollar relative to certain other currencies. cocoa bean, cocoa butter and sugar costs on average were higher in 2011 than in 2010. we purchase our dairy raw material requirements, including milk and cheese, from independent third parties such as agricultural cooperatives and independent processors. the prices for milk and other dairy products are substantially influenced by market supply and demand, as well as by government programs. dairy commodity costs on average were higher in 2011 than in 2010. the most significant cost item in coffee products is green coffee beans, which we purchase on world markets. green coffee bean prices are affected by the quality and availability of supply, changes in the value of the u.s. dollar in relation to certain other currencies and consumer demand for coffee products. green coffee bean costs on average were higher in 2011 than in 2010. significant cost items in our biscuit and grocery products are grains (wheat, corn and soybean oil). grain costs have experienced significant volatility and have increased from 2010 to 2011 due largely to burgeoning global demand for food, livestock feed and biofuels such as ethanol and biodiesel. during 2011, our aggregate commodity costs increased primarily as a result of higher costs of coffee, dairy, grains and oils, packaging materials, other raw materials, meat and nuts. our commodity costs increased approximately $2.6 billion in 2011 and approximately $1.0 billion in 2010 compared to the prior year. we expect the higher cost environment and commodity cost volatility to continue in 2012. the prices for raw materials and agricultural materials used in our products are affected by external factors such as weather conditions, commodity market conditions, currency fluctuations and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. we use hedging techniques to limit the impact of price fluctuations in our principal raw materials. however, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and these strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. while the prices of our principal raw materials can be expected to fluctuate, we believe there will continue to be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they will generally remain available from numerous sources. intellectual property our trademarks are material to our business. we protect our trademarks by registration or otherwise in the u.s. and in other markets where we sell our products. trademark protection continues in some countries for as long as the mark is used and in other countries for as long as it is registered. registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. from time to time, we grant third parties licenses to use one or more of our trademarks in particular locations. similarly, we sell some products under brands we license from third parties, including at december 31, 2011: capri sun packaged juice drinks for sale in the u.s. and canada; and taco bell home originals mexican style food products for sale in u.s. grocery stores. we also own numerous patents worldwide. we consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patents licenses under patents owned by third parties, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know how processes and related intellectual property rights to be of material importance to our operations. while our patent portfolio is material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. we have either been issued patents or have patent applications pending for a number of current and potential products, including products licensed to others. patents issued, or applied for, cover inventions ranging from basic packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. 6 research and development we pursue four objectives in research and development: product safety and quality; growth through new products; superior consumer satisfaction; and reduced costs. we have approximately 3,300 food scientists, chemists and engineers working primarily in 15 key technology centers: east hanover, new jersey; glenview, illinois; madison, wisconsin; tarrytown, new york; whippany, new jersey; banbury, united kingdom; bournville, united kingdom; curitiba, brazil; eysins, switzerland; paris, france; melbourne, australia; mexico city, mexico; munich, germany; reading, united kingdom; and suzhou, china. these technology centers are equipped with pilot plants and state-of-the-art instruments. research and development expense was $702 million in 2011, $583 million in 2010, and $466 million in 2009. regulation our u.s. food products and packaging materials are primarily regulated by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) or, for products containing meat and poultry, the u.s. food safety and inspection service of the u.s. department of agriculture. these agencies enact and enforce regulations relating to the manufacturing, distribution and labeling of food products. we supported the food safety modernization act, a 2011 law that provided additional food safety authority to the fda. we do not expect the cost of complying with that law, and implementing regulations expected over the next two to three years, to be material. in addition, various states regulate our u.s. operations by licensing plants, enforcing federal and state standards for selected food products, grading food products, inspecting plants and warehouses, regulating trade practices related to the sale of dairy products and imposing their own labeling requirements on food products. many of the food commodities we use in our u.s. operations are subject to governmental agricultural programs. these programs have substantial effects on prices and supplies and are subject to periodic u.s. congressional and administrative review. all of our non-u.s. based operations are subject to local and national regulations, some of which are similar to those applicable to our u.s. operations. for example, in the european union, we must comply with requirements that apply to labeling, packaging, food content, pricing, marketing and advertising and related areas. environmental regulation we are subject to various laws and regulations in and outside of the u.s. relating to the protection of the environment. in the u.s., the laws and regulations include the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation and recovery act and superfund (the environmental program established in the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act to address abandoned hazardous waste sites), which imposes joint and severable liability on each potentially responsible party. at december 31, 2011, our subsidiaries were involved in 68 active actions in the u.s. under the superfund legislation (and other similar actions and legislation) related to our current operations and certain former or divested operations for which we retain liability. outside the u.s., we are subject to applicable multi-national, national and local environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business. outside the u.s., we have specific programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements. as of december 31, 2011, we accrued an immaterial amount for environmental remediation. based on information currently available, we believe that the ultimate resolution of existing environmental remediation actions and our compliance in general with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our financial results. see note 1 , summary of significant accounting policies, for additional information on our environmental remediation programs. employees at december 31, 2011, we employed approximately 126,000 people worldwide. labor unions represent approximately 27% of our 36,000 u.s. employees. most of the unionized workers at our u.s. locations are represented under contracts with the bakery, confectionery, tobacco workers and grain millers international union; the united food and commercial workers international union; and the international brotherhood of teamsters. these contracts expire at various times throughout the next several years. outside the u.s., labor unions or workers councils represent approximately 58% of our 90,000 employees. our business units are subject to various laws and regulations relating to their relationships with their employees. these laws and regulations are specific to the location of each business unit. in addition, in accordance with european union requirements, we have established a european works council composed of management and elected members of our workforce. we believe that our relationships with employees and their representative organizations are generally good. 7 foreign operations we sell our products to consumers in approximately 170 countries. at december 31, 2011, we had operations in more than 80 countries and made our products at 220 manufacturing and processing facilities worldwide. we generated approximately 60% of our 2011 net revenues, 57% of our 2010 net revenues and 49% of our 2009 net revenues outside the u.s. refer to note 16, segment reporting, for additional information on our foreign operations. also, for a discussion of risks attendant to our foreign operations, see risk factors in item 1a. executive officers of the registrant the following are our executive officers as of february 27, 2012: name age title irene b. rosenfeld 58 chairman and chief executive officer david a. brearton 51 executive vice president and chief financial officer john t. cahill 54 executive chairman designate, north american grocery timothy p. cofer 43 executive vice president and president, kraft foods europe marc s. firestone 52 executive vice president, corporate and legal affairs and general counsel sanjay khosla 60 executive vice president and president, developing markets karen j. may 53 executive vice president, global human resources timothy r. mclevish 56 executive vice president daniel p. myers 56 executive vice president, supply chain sam b. rovit 54 executive vice president, strategy jean e. spence 54 executive vice president, research, development and quality w. anthony vernon 56 executive vice president and president, kraft foods north america mary beth west 49 executive vice president and chief category and marketing officer ms. rosenfeld was appointed chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors of kraft foods in june 2006 and chairman of the board in march 2007. prior to that, she had been chairman and chief executive officer of frito-lay, a division of pepsico, inc., a food and beverage company, from september 2004 to june 2006. previously, ms. rosenfeld was employed continuously by kraft foods, and its predecessor, general foods corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including president of kraft foods north america and, before that, president of operations, technology, information systems of kraft foods, canada, mexico, and puerto rico. she is also a trustee of cornell university. mr. brearton was appointed executive vice president and chief financial officer effective may 9, 2011. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, operations and business services from january 2008 to may 2011, executive vice president, global business services and strategy from april 2006 to december 2007 and senior vice president of business process simplification and corporate controller from february 2005 to april 2006. he previously served as senior vice president, finance for kraft foods international. mr. brearton joined kraft foods in 1984. mr. brearton also serves on the board of directors of feeding america. mr. cahill was designated executive chairman north american grocery effective january 2, 2012. prior to that, he served as an industrial partner at ripplewood holdings llc, a private equity firm, from 2008 to 2011. mr. cahill spent nine years with the pepsi bottling group, inc., a beverage manufacturing company, most recently as chairman and chief executive officer from 2003 to 2006 and executive chairman until 2007. mr. cahill previously spent nine years with pepsico, inc., a food and beverage company, in a variety of leadership positions. mr. cahill also serves on the boards of directors of colgate-palmolive company and legg mason, inc. mr. cofer was appointed executive vice president and president, kraft foods europe effective august 15, 2011. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, global chocolate category from june 2010 to august 2011, senior vice president, strategy and integration from january 2010 to june 2010, president of pizza from january 2008 to january 2010, and senior vice president and general manager of oscar mayer from january 2007 to january 2008. he served as vice president and general manager of eu chocolate from june 2003 to january 2007. mr. cofer joined kraft foods in 1992. mr. firestone was appointed executive vice president, corporate and legal affairs and general counsel in october 2006. he previously served as kraft foods executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary from november 2003 to october 2006. prior to joining kraft foods in 2003, mr. firestone served as senior vice president and general counsel of philip morris international, a tobacco company. mr. firestone also serves on the board of directors of unilife corporation. on february 16, 2012, we announced that mr. firestone will be leaving the company in early 2012. 8 mr. khosla was appointed executive vice president and president, developing markets effective august 1, 2010. prior to that, he served as executive vice president and president, kraft foods international from january 2007 to july 2010. before joining kraft foods, he served as the managing director of fonterra brands, a dairy company, from 2004 to 2006. previously, mr. khosla spent 27 years with unilever n.v., a consumer products company, in india, london and europe. mr. khosla also serves on the boards of directors of best buy co., inc. and niit ltd. and is a trustee of the goodman theater company in chicago. ms. may was appointed executive vice president, global human resources in october 2005. prior to that, she was corporate vice president, human resources for baxter international inc., a healthcare company, since february 2001. ms. may also serves on the board of directors of mb financial inc. mr. mclevish has served as executive vice president since august 15, 2011, planning for the proposed separation of kraft foods into two independent companies. prior to that, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from october 2007 to may 2011. he previously served as senior vice president and chief financial officer at ingersoll-rand company limited, an industrial company, since june 2002. mr. mclevish also serves on the board of directors of kennametal inc. mr. myers joined kraft foods as executive vice president, supply chain in september 2011. prior to that, he worked for procter &amp; gamble, a consumer products company, for 33 years, in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as vice president, product supply for p&amp;g global hair care business from september 2007 to august 2011. mr. myers also serves on the advisory board of the university of tennessee supply chain institute. mr. rovit was appointed executive vice president, strategy effective february 1, 2011. prior to joining kraft foods, he served as a director of bain &amp; co., a management consulting firm, from january 2008 to january 2011 and from 1988 to june 2005. mr. rovit served as president, chief executive officer and director of swift &amp; company, a meat processing company, from june 2005 to july 2007. ms. spence was appointed executive vice president, research, development and quality in january 2004. prior to that, ms. spence served as senior vice president, research and development, kraft foods north america from august 2003 to january 2004 and senior vice president of worldwide quality, scientific affairs and compliance for kraft foods north america from november 2001 to august 2003. she joined kraft foods in 1981. ms. spence also serves as a trustee of clarkson university and on the supervisory board of gea group ag. mr. vernon joined kraft foods as executive vice president and president, kraft foods north america in august 2009. prior to that, he was the healthcare industry partner of ripplewood holdings llc, a private equity firm, since 2006. mr. vernon spent 23 years with johnson &amp; johnson, a pharmaceutical company, in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as company group chairman of depuy inc., an orthopedics company and subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson, from 2004 to 2005. mr. vernon also serves on the boards of directors of medivation, inc. and novocare, inc. ms. west was appointed executive vice president and chief category and marketing officer effective august 1, 2010. previously, she served as executive vice president and chief marketing officer from october 2007 to july 2010 and as group vice president for kraft foods and president of the north america beverages sector from 2005 to october 2007. ms. west joined kraft foods in 1986. ms. west also serves on the board of directors of j.c. penney co., inc. and is a member of the executive leadership council. we adopted the kraft foods code of conduct, which qualifies as a code of ethics under item 406 of regulation s-k. the code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. our code of ethics is available free of charge on our web site at www.kraftfoodscompany.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: corporate secretary, kraft foods inc., three lakes drive, northfield, il 60093. we will disclose any waiver we grant to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of ethics, on our web site at www.kraftfoodscompany.com . in addition, we adopted corporate governance guidelines, charters for each of the board four standing committees and the code of business conduct and ethics for directors. all of these materials are available on our web site at www.kraftfoodscompany.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder requesting a copy by writing to: corporate secretary, kraft foods inc., three lakes drive, northfield, il 60093. available information our internet address is www.kraftfoodscompany.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. you can access our filings with the sec by visiting www.kraftfoodscompany.com . the information on our web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. 9 you can also read and copy any document that we file, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for information on the operation of the public reference room. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including kraft foods, that are electronically filed with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward looking statements are made in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food industry is highly competitive. we compete based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. we may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures. competition and customer pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. we may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect or increase market share. these expenditures are subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. if we reduce prices or increase costs, but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset those changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. maintaining our reputation and brand image is essential to our business success. we have many iconic brands with worldwide recognition. our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we seek to maintain, extend and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers confidence and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children. these restrictions may limit our ability to maintain, extend and expand our brand image as the media and communications environment continues to evolve. negative posts or comments about us on social networking web sites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 10 we must leverage our value proposition to compete against retailer brands and other economy brands. retailers are increasingly offering retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than less expensive alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty such as those we continue to experience. consumers may not buy our products if the difference in value or quality between our products and retailer or other economy brands narrows or if consumers perceive a narrowing. if consumers prefer retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. the impact could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the consolidation of retail customers could adversely affect us. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the u.s., the european union and our other major markets, continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers on which we can rely for business. consolidation also produces large, more sophisticated retail customers that can resist price increases and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs or specifically tailored products. in addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. further retail consolidation and increasing retail power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases. changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers could adversely affect us. during 2011, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 21% of our net revenues with our largest customer wal-mart stores, inc., accounting for approximately 12% of our net revenues. there can be no assurance that all significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. disputes with significant suppliers, including regarding pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. commodity and other input prices are volatile and may rise significantly. we purchase large quantities of commodities, including dairy, coffee beans, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, nuts, meat products, and sugar and other sweeteners. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of plastic, glass and cardboard to package our products, and natural gas to operate our factories and warehouses. prices for commodities, other supplies and energy are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather, consumer or industrial demand and changes in governmental trade, alternative energy and agricultural programs. in addition, speculative trading often exacerbates price volatility. for 2011, our commodity costs were approximately $2.6 billion higher than for 2010. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, and seek to hedge against input price increases, continued volatility in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer. moreover, increases in the price of our products to cover these increased costs may result in lower sales volumes. if we are not successful in our hedging activities, or if we are unable to price to cover increased costs, then commodity and other input price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the proposed spin-off may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all. in august 2011, we announced our intention to become two independent publicly traded companies through a u.s. tax-free spin-off of our north american grocery business to existing shareholders. unanticipated developments could delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect the proposed spin-off of the north american grocery business, including possible problems or delays in obtaining various regulatory and tax approvals or clearances and disruptions in the capital and other financial markets, among other things. in addition, consummation of the proposed spin-off will require final approval from our board of directors. therefore, we cannot assure that we will be able to complete the spin-off on the terms or on the timeline that we announced, if at all. 11 in order to position ourselves for the proposed spin-off, we are actively pursuing strategic, structural and process realignment and restructuring actions within our north american operations. these actions could lead to disruption of our operations, loss of, or inability to recruit, key personnel needed to operate and grow our businesses and complete the proposed spin-off, weakening of our internal standards, controls or procedures, and impairment of our relationship with key customers and suppliers. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses in connection with the proposed spin-off. in addition, completion of the proposed spin-off will require significant amounts of our management time and effort which may divert management attention from operating and growing our businesses and could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. if the spin-off is completed, it may not achieve the intended results. if the proposed spin-off is completed, our operational and financial profile will change upon the separation of the north american grocery business from our other businesses. as a result, our diversification of revenue sources will diminish, and our results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility. further, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in a smaller company with its business concentrated in the global snacks business. these changes may not meet some shareholders investment strategies, which could cause investors to sell their shares of our common stock. excessive selling could cause the relative market price of our common stock to decrease following the consummation of the proposed spin-off. in addition, if the proposed spin-off is completed, as the global snacks business our business in north america will be greatly reduced and a significantly greater proportion of our revenues will be derived from non-u.s. operations. accordingly, the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this annual report that are associated with operating a global business could increase if the proposed spin-off is completed. changes in regulations could increase our costs and affect our profitability. our activities in the united states and around the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. various federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations govern food production and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, tax and environmental matters. governing bodies regularly issue new regulations and changes to existing regulations. our need to comply with new or revised regulations or their interpretation and application, including proposed requirements designed to enhance food safety or to regulate imported ingredients, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that affect our product sales, reputation and profitability. we are a large food company operating in a highly regulated environment and a constantly evolving legal and regulatory framework around the world. consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, the failure to maintain effective control environment processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. product recalls or other product liability claims could materially and adversely affect us. selling products for human consumption involves inherent risks. we could decide to, or be required to recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment or a related regulatory enforcement action against us, or a widespread product recall, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 12 we are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate in a global environment, which could affect our growth and financial performance. we generated approximately 60% of our 2011 net revenues, 57% of our 2010 net revenues and 49% of our 2009 net revenues outside the u.s. with operations in more than 80 countries, our operations are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the u.s., such as the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), compliance with a variety of local regulations and laws, changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws, fluctuations in currency values, sudden changes in foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, difficulties enforcing intellectual property and contractual rights in certain jurisdictions, greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, effective and immediate implementation of control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base, and imposition of more or new tariff, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our sales outside the u.s. moreover, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our operations in certain developing markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in developing markets, including brazil, china, india, mexico, russia and southeast asia. however, some developing markets have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than established markets. in many countries outside of the u.s., particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act or similar local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in developing markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand their production capacities. our success in integrating cadbury operations and products, many of which have a strong presence in a number of developing markets, is critical to our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in developing markets, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. unanticipated business disruptions could affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks and information systems that support our ability consistently to provide our products to our customers. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like weather, natural disasters, fire, terrorism, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics, could damage or disrupt our operations, or our suppliers or co-manufacturers operations. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, whether by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or are unable to quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or unable to deliver, products to our customers. if that occurs, our customers confidence in us and long-term demand for our products could decline. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, and offer new products to meet those changes. consumer preferences for food products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to consumer preferences. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer. 13 we must distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products will decrease and our profitability could suffer. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. for example, recently, consumers have been increasingly focused on health and wellness, including weight management and reducing sodium consumption. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may be unsuccessful in these efforts. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may not successfully complete proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, including cadbury, we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including the expected increases in revenues and operating results, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. in addition, we may divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives, or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. we may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may affect our profitability. moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce our profitability. our acquisition or divestiture activities may present financial, managerial and operational risks. those risks include diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, effective and immediate implementation of control environment processes across our diverse employee population, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings, potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our acquisition of cadbury and disposition of our frozen pizza business increased the portion of our assets, liabilities and earnings denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies, which increased our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. our financial results and capital ratios are now more sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates than in prior periods because a larger portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated into u.s. dollars for external reporting purposes or converted into u.s. dollars to service obligations such as our u.s. dollar denominated indebtedness. in addition, movements in foreign exchange rates can affect transaction costs because we source product ingredients from various countries. we may seek to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, but our efforts may not be successful. accordingly, a depreciation of non-u.s. dollar currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, or changes in the relative value of any two currencies that we use for transactions, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we are increasingly dependent on information technology, and if we are unable to protect against service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. these information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. if our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. 14 in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers or suppliers. in addition, the disclosure of non-public sensitive information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid capital markets and volatile economic conditions could limit our access to the capital markets, reduce our liquidity or increase our borrowing costs. from time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. our financial performance, our short-and long-term credit ratings, the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the food industry, will affect our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms we find acceptable. we access the commercial paper market for regular funding requirements. a downgrade in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper. disruptions in the commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the credit markets also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and could raise our borrowing costs for both short-and long-term debt offerings. our inability to access the capital markets or an increase in our borrowing costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase our pension costs and have a negative impact on our operating results and profitability. we sponsor a number of benefit plans for employees in the united states, the united kingdom and many other non-u.s. locations, including defined benefit pension plans, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. at the end of 2011, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $17.1 billion and assets were $13.4 billion. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. our major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of investments, including equities and corporate debt. we also have an insignificant amount of trust assets invested in european and other sovereign debt. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, minimum funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which the plans operate, arrangements made with the trustees of certain foreign plans and the market value of plan assets can affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost, and increase our future funding requirements. legislative and other governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans benefits obligation. based on current tax laws, we estimate the 2012 pension contributions will be approximately $480 million, which is approximately $420 million less than we contributed in 2011. we also expect that our net pension cost will increase to approximately $750 million in 2012. volatility in the global capital markets has increased the risk that we may be required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net pension cost beyond 2012. a significant increase in our u.s. pension funding requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to invest in the business. in addition, if we divest certain businesses, we may be required to increase future contributions to the benefit plans and the related net periodic pension cost could increase. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as we operate globally, we use certain financial instruments to manage our foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain foreign currency, commodity price and interest rate risk management policies that principally use derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we also sell commodity futures to unprice future purchase commitments, and we occasionally use related futures to cross-hedge a commodity exposure. we are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use financial instruments for speculative purposes. refer to note 1, summary of significant accounting policies, and note 12, financial instruments , to the consolidated financial statements for further details of our foreign currency, commodity price and interest rate risk management policies and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge those exposures. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our foreign currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. we included our debt; foreign currency forwards and futures, swaps and options; and commodity futures, forwards and options in our var computation. excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to hedge. we made the var estimates assuming normal market conditions, using a 95% confidence interval. we used a variance / co-variance model to determine the observed interrelationships between movements in interest rates and various currencies. these interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate and forward currency rate movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2011 and 2010, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of foreign currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity, and were valued accordingly in the var computation. as of december 31, 2011, the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our foreign currency and commodity instruments, as calculated in the var model, were (in millions): average average average average average average average average pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/11 average high low at 12/31/11 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 157 $ 164 $ 234 $ 133 foreign currency rates $ 17 $ 22 $ 30 $ 17 commodity prices 33 33 42 28 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/10 average high low at 12/31/10 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 237 $ 176 $ 237 $ 97 foreign currency rates $ 13 $ 8 $ 13 $ 4 commodity prices 34 22 34 9 this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum probable daily loss from adverse movements in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices under normal market conditions. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings to be incurred by kraft foods, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in such market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in such market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 54risk factors 9 executive officers of the registrant the following are our executive officers as of february 25, 2013: name age title irene b. rosenfeld 59 chairman and chief executive officer david a. brearton 52 executive vice president and chief financial officer gustavo h. abelenda 52 executive vice president and president, latin america tracey belcourt 46 executive vice president, strategy mark clouse 44 executive vice president and president, north america timothy p. cofer 44 executive vice president and president, europe karen j. may 54 executive vice president, global human resources daniel p. myers 57 executive vice president, integrated supply chain pradeep pant 59 executive vice president and president, asia pacific and eemea gerhard w. pleuhs 56 executive vice president and general counsel jean e. spence 55 executive vice president, research, development and quality mary beth west 50 executive vice president and chief category and marketing officer ms. rosenfeld was appointed chief executive officer and director of kraft foods inc., the predecessor to mondel z international, in june 2006 and became chairman of the board in march 2007. prior to that, she served as chairman and chief executive officer of frito-lay, a division of pepsico, inc., a food and beverage company, from september 2004 to june 2006. previous to that, ms. rosenfeld was employed continuously by kraft foods inc., and its predecessor, general foods corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including president of kraft foods north america and president of operations, technology, information systems and kraft foods, canada, mexico and puerto rico. mr. brearton was appointed executive vice president and chief financial officer of kraft foods inc., the predecessor to mondel z international, in may 2011. prior to that, at kraft foods inc., he served as executive vice president, operations and business services from january 2008 to may 2011, executive vice president, global business services and strategy from april 2006 to december 2007 and senior vice president of business process simplification and corporate controller from february 2005 to april 2006. he previously served as senior vice president, finance for kraft foods international. mr. brearton joined kraft foods inc. in 1984. mr. brearton also serves on the board of directors of feeding america, a non-for-profit organization. mr. abelenda was appointed executive vice president and president, latin america effective january 1, 2013. prior to that, he served as group vice president and president, latin america from august 2003 to december 2012 and vice president and managing director, brazil, from october 2000 to august 2003. mr. abelenda joined kraft foods inc. in 1984. 7 table of contents ms. belcourt was appointed executive vice president, strategy effective october 2, 2012. she joined kraft foods inc., the predecessor to mondel z international, in september 2012. prior to that, she was a partner of bain &amp; company, a management consulting firm, since 1999, where she specialized in the design and implementation of growth strategies to improve business performance across a variety of consumer industries. prior to bain, ms. belcourt was an assistant professor of economics at concordia university in montreal from 1994 to 1999. she also served as an economic consultant to the u.s. agency for international development in africa in 1999 during her professorship. mr. clouse was appointed executive vice president and president, north america effective october 2, 2012. prior to that, mr. clouse held various positions around the world during his 16 years with kraft foods inc., the predecessor to mondel z international. he served as president of kraft foods inc. snacks and confectionery business in north america from june 2011 to october 2012 and senior vice president of the biscuits global category team from october 2010 to june 2011. he was managing director of kraft foods brazil from 2008 to 2010 and president of kraft foods greater china from 2006 to 2008. before joining kraft foods inc. in 1996, mr. clouse served in the united states army for seven years, obtaining the rank of captain. mr. cofer is executive vice president and president, europe, a position he held with kraft foods inc., the predecessor to mondel z international, since august 2011. prior to that, he served as senior vice president global chocolate category from june 2010 to august 2011, senior vice president strategy and integration from january 2010 to june 2010, president kraft pizza company from january 2008 to january 2010, and senior vice president and general manager of oscar mayer from january 2007 to january 2008. he served as general manager of eu chocolate from june 2003 to january 2007. mr. cofer joined kraft foods inc. in 1992. ms. may was appointed executive vice president, global human resources of kraft foods inc., the predecessor to mondel z international, in october 2005. prior to that, she was corporate vice president, human resources, for baxter international inc., a healthcare company, since february 2001. ms. may also serves on the board of directors of mb financial inc., a financial services provider. mr. myers is executive vice president, integrated supply chain, a position he has held since he joined kraft foods inc., the predecessor to mondel z international, in september 2011. prior to that, he worked for procter &amp; gamble, a consumer products company, for 33 years, in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as vice president, product supply for p&amp;g global hair care business from september 2007 to august 2011. mr. myers also serves on the advisory board of the university of tennessee supply chain institute. mr. pant was appointed executive vice president and president, asia pacific and eemea effective january 1, 2013. prior to that, he served as president, asia pacific from january 2008 to december 2012. before joining kraft foods inc., the predecessor to mondel z international, he served as regional managing director for asia, africa and the middle east of fonterra brands, a dairy company, from january 2006 to december 2007 and as a member of the of fonterra leadership team from january 2007 to december 2007. mr. pant spent 20 years with gillette, a consumer products company, holding various positions throughout asia pacific including greater china, australia, korea, japan and india. mr. pleuhs was appointed executive vice president and general counsel of kraft foods inc., the predecessor to mondel z international, effective april 1, 2012. prior to that, he was senior vice president &amp; deputy general counsel, business units from november 2007 to march 2012 and senior vice president and deputy general counsel, international for kraft foods global, inc., from july 2004 to november 2007. before joining kraft foods inc. in 1990, mr. pleuhs held a number of senior positions within the german law department of jacobs kaffee deutschland gmbh, an international beverage and confectionery company, prior to and after its acquisition by altria group, the former parent company of kraft foods inc. ms. spence was appointed executive vice president, research, development and quality of kraft foods inc., the predecessor to mondel z international, in january 2004. prior to that, ms. spence served as senior vice president, research and development for kraft foods north america from august 2003 to january 2004 and senior vice president of worldwide quality, scientific affairs and compliance for kraft foods north america from november 2001 to august 2003. she joined kraft foods inc. in 1981. ms. spence also serves as a trustee of clarkson university and on the supervisory board of gea group ag. ms. west was appointed executive vice president and chief category and marketing officer of kraft foods inc., the predecessor to mondel z international, effective august 1, 2010. previously, she served as executive vice president and chief marketing officer from october 2007 to july 2010 and as group vice president for kraft foods and president of the north america beverages sector from 2005 to october 2007. ms. west joined kraft foods inc. in 1986. ms. west also serves on the board of directors of j.c. penney company, inc. and is a member of the executive leadership council. 8 table of contents ethics and governance we adopted the mondel z international code of conduct, which qualifies as a code of ethics under item 406 of regulation s-k. the code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. our code of ethics is available free of charge on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: corporate secretary, mondel z international, inc., three parkway north, deerfield, il 60015. we will disclose any waiver we grant to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of ethics, on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com . in addition, we adopted corporate governance guidelines, charters for each of the board three standing committees and the code of business conduct and ethics for non-employee directors. all of these materials are available on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder requesting a copy by writing to: corporate secretary, mondel z international, inc., three parkway north, deerfield, il 60015. available information our internet address is www.mondelezinternational.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. you can access our filings with the sec by visiting www.mondelezinternational.com . the information on our web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. you can also read, access and copy any document that we file, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for information on the operation of the public reference room. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including mondel z international, that are electronically filed with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food and snacking industries are highly competitive. our principal competitors are major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas. we compete based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. we may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures. additionally, the emergence of new distribution channels, such as internet sales directly to consumers, may affect customer and consumer preferences. competition and customer pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. we may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect or increase market share. these expenditures are subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. if we reduce prices or our costs increase, but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset those changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. 9 table of contents maintaining, extending and expanding our reputation and brand image is essential to our business success. we have many iconic brands with worldwide recognition. our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands into new geographies and to new platforms and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we seek to maintain, extend and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food and snacking marketing practices. increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers confidence and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products, for instance marketing to children. these restrictions may limit our ability to maintain, extend and expand our brand image as the media and communications environment continues to evolve. negative posts or comments about us on social networking web sites could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the consolidation of retail customers creates larger retailers with increased influence in the marketplace. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the european union, the united states and our other major markets, continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers on which we can rely for business. consolidation also produces large, more sophisticated retail customers that can resist price increases and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs or specifically tailored products. in addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. further retail consolidation and increasing retail power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases. changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers could affect sales and our ability to supply products to our customers. during 2012, our five largest customers accounted for 15.6% of our net revenues. no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues from continuing operations. there can be no assurance that all significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales, or a change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. disputes with significant suppliers, including those related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. commodity and other input prices are volatile and may rise significantly. we purchase large quantities of commodities, including sugar and other sweeteners, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils and dairy. in addition, we use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products. we also use natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. prices for commodities, other supplies and energy are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global 10 table of contents competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather, consumer or industrial demand and changes in governmental trade, alternative energy and agricultural programs. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, and seek to hedge against input price increases, continued volatility in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer. moreover, increases in the price of our products to cover these increased costs may result in lower sales volumes, while decreases could require us to lower our prices and affect our revenues, profits or margins. if we are not successful in our hedging activities, if we are unable to price to cover increased costs or if we must reduce our prices, then commodity and other input price volatility, increases or decreases could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we must leverage our value proposition in order to compete against retailer brands and other economy brands. retailers are increasingly offering retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than less expensive alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty such as those we continue to experience. consumers may not buy our products if the difference in value or quality between our products and retailer or other economy brands narrows or if consumers perceive a narrowing. if consumers switch to purchasing, or otherwise prefer retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. the impact could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. changes in regulations could increase our costs. our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. various laws and regulations govern food production and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, tax and environmental matters. governing bodies regularly adopt new laws and regulations and change existing laws and regulations. our need to comply with new or revised laws and regulations or their interpretation and application, including proposed requirements designed to enhance food safety or to regulate imported ingredients, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. we are a large food and snacking company operating in highly regulated environments and constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks around the world. consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, our failure to maintain effective control environment processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. we may decide or be required to recall products or be subjected to other product liability claims. selling products for human consumption involves inherent risks. we could decide to, or be required to recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our reputation and product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment or a related regulatory enforcement action against us, or a widespread product recall, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 11 table of contents we are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate globally. we are a global company generating 82.9% of our 2012 net revenues, 83.7% of our 2011 net revenues and 82.6% of our 2010 net revenues outside the united states. with operations in more than 80 countries, our operations are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), compliance with a varying local, national and multi-national regulations and laws operating in multiple regimes, changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws, fluctuations in currency values, sudden changes in currency exchange controls, such as the recent devaluation in venezuela discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, increased risk on sovereign debt investments, varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights, greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, effective and immediate implementation of control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base, and the imposition of more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our sales. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets, including brazil, china, india, mexico, russia and southeast asia. however, some emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than most established markets. in many countries outside of the united states, particularly in those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act or similar local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand their production capacities. our success in emerging markets, is critical to our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. unanticipated business disruptions could affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks and information systems that support our ability consistently to provide our products to our customers. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like weather, natural disasters, fire, terrorism, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics, could damage or disrupt our operations, or our suppliers or co-manufacturers operations. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers. if that occurs, we may lose our customers confidence and long-term demand for our products could decline. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 12 table of contents we must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, and offer new products to meet those changes. consumer preferences for food and snacking products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to consumer preferences. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer. we must distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, including by geography, we must offer an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products will decrease and our profitability could suffer. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. for example, recently, consumers have been increasingly focused on health and wellness, including weight management and reducing sodium consumption. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may be unsuccessful in these efforts. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may not successfully identify or complete acquisitions or divestitures or successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. from time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including the expected increases in revenues and operating results, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. in addition, we may divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives, or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. we may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may affect our profitability. moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce our profitability. our acquisition or divestiture activities may present financial, managerial and operational risks. those risks include diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, effective and immediate implementation of control environment processes across our diverse employee population, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings, potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. the spin-off increased the proportion of our business exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. our financial results and capital ratios are now more sensitive to movements in exchange rates than in prior periods because a larger portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated into u.s. dollars for external reporting purposes or converted into u.s. dollars to service obligations such as our u.s. dollar-denominated indebtedness and dividends. in addition, movements in foreign exchange rates can affect transaction costs because we source product ingredients from various countries. we may seek to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, but our efforts may not be successful. accordingly, a depreciation of non-u.s. dollar currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, or changes in the relative value of any two currencies that we use for transactions, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 13 table of contents we are increasingly dependent on information technology. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. these information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. if any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers or suppliers. in addition, the disclosure of non-public sensitive information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid global capital markets and volatile global economic conditions could limit our access to the capital markets, reduce our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs. from time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term global capital markets to obtain financing. our financial performance, our short- and long-term credit ratings, the liquidity of the overall global capital markets and the state of the global economy, including the food industry, will affect our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the global capital markets on terms we find acceptable. we access the u.s. and euro commercial paper markets for regular funding requirements. a downgrade in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper. disruptions in the global commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the global credit markets also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and could raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. our inability to access the global capital markets or an increase in our borrowing costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. volatility in the equity markets, interest rates or other factors could substantially increase our pension costs. we sponsor a number of benefit plans for our employees throughout the world, including defined benefit pension plans, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. at the end of 2012, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $11.2 billion and plan assets were $8.3 billion. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. our major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of investments, including equities and corporate debt. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, minimum funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which the plans operate, arrangements made with the trustees of certain plans and the market value of plan assets can affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost, and increase our future funding requirements. legislative and other governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans benefits obligation. based on current tax laws, we estimate our 2013 pension contributions will be approximately $320 million. we also expect that our net pension cost will decrease to approximately $370 million in 2013. the decrease is primarily due to non-recurring costs in 2012 related primarily to certain pension plan obligations transferred to kraft foods group in the spin-off and other 2012 one-time costs, partially offset by increased pension plan expenses in 2013 related to lower discount rates. volatility in the global capital markets has increased the risk that we may be required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net pension cost beyond 2013. a significant portion of some of our pension trust assets are invested in european sovereign debt and are subject to heightened risk that they will lose value as a result of political and financial turmoil in europe. 14 table of contents due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposure under those plans that extends beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our employees. if a participating employer ceases its contributions to the plan, as a result of a bankruptcy or otherwise, such as in the case of hostess brands bankruptcy which we are currently evaluating, we may be required to participate in funding the unfunded obligations of the plan allocable to the withdrawing employer and our costs might increase as a result. (see note 10, benefit plans , to the consolidated financial statements for more information). further, if we withdraw from a multi-employer pension plan, we may be required to pay those plans an amount based on our allocable share of the underfunded status of the plan. a significant increase in our pension funding requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to invest in the business. we may be unable to hire or retain and develop key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to hire new personnel and then to develop and retain their skills and competencies. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, or to hire and retain a diverse global workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. in addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert management and other key personnel attention from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as we operate globally, we use certain financial instruments to manage our foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain foreign currency, commodity price and interest rate risk management policies that principally use derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we also sell commodity futures to unprice future purchase commitments, and we occasionally use related futures to cross-hedge a commodity exposure. we are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use financial instruments for speculative purposes. refer to note 1, summary of significant accounting policies, and note 9, financial instruments , to the consolidated financial statements for further details of our foreign currency, commodity price and interest rate risk management policies and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge those exposures. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our foreign currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. we included our debt; foreign currency forwards and futures, swaps and options; and commodity futures, forwards and options in our var computation. excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to hedge. we made the var estimates assuming normal market conditions, using a 95% confidence interval. we used a variance / co-variance model to determine the observed interrelationships between movements in interest rates and various currencies. these interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate and forward currency rate movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2012 and 2011, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of foreign currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity, and were valued accordingly in the var computation. as of december 31, 2012, the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our foreign currency and commodity instruments, as calculated in the var model, were (in millions): pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/12 average high low at 12/31/12 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 80 $ 133 $ 172 $ 80 foreign currency rates $ 10 $ 17 $ 24 $ 10 commodity prices 19 44 60 19 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/11 average high low at 12/31/11 average high low instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 157 $ 164 $ 234 $ 133 foreign currency rates $ 17 $ 22 $ 30 $ 17 commodity prices 33 33 42 28 with the spin-off, a significant portion of our primarily u.s. derivative instruments were divested in the fourth quarter of 2012. the impacts presented in the table above have not been recast to reflect the divestiture for periods prior to the spin-off as it is impracticable to do so. this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum probable daily loss from adverse movements in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices under normal market conditions. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings we will incur, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in such market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in such market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 52 table of contentsrisk factors 9 executive officers of the registrant the following are our executive officers as of march 3, 2014: name age title irene b. rosenfeld 60 chairman and chief executive officer david a. brearton 53 executive vice president and chief financial officer gustavo h. abelenda 53 executive vice president and president, latin america tracey belcourt 47 executive vice president, strategy mark a. clouse 45 executive vice president and president, north america timothy p. cofer 45 executive vice president and president, asia pacific and eemea james kehoe 51 senior vice president, operating excellence karen j. may 55 executive vice president, human resources daniel p. myers 58 executive vice president, integrated supply chain gerhard w. pleuhs 57 executive vice president and general counsel jean e. spence 56 executive vice president, research, development and quality hubert weber 51 executive vice president and president, europe mary beth west 51 executive vice president and chief category and marketing officer ms. rosenfeld became chief executive officer and director in june 2006 and became chairman of the board in march 2007. prior to that, she served as chairman and chief executive officer of frito-lay, a division of pepsico, inc., a food and beverage company, from september 2004 to june 2006. ms. rosenfeld was employed continuously by mondel z international and its predecessor, general foods corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including president of kraft foods north america and president of operations, technology, information systems and kraft foods, canada, mexico and puerto rico. mr. brearton became executive vice president and chief financial officer in may 2011. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, operations and business services from january 2008 to may 2011, executive vice president, global business services and strategy from april 2006 to december 2007 and senior vice president of business 7 table of contents process simplification and corporate controller from february 2005 to april 2006. he previously served as senior vice president, finance for kraft foods international. mr. brearton joined mondel z international in 1984. mr. abelenda became executive vice president and president, latin america in january 2013. prior to that, he served as group vice president and president, latin america from august 2003 to december 2012, vice president and managing director, brazil, from october 2000 to august 2003, food vice president, mercosur area from april 1998 to october 2000 and general manager of brazilian beverages and sugar confectionery business from february 1997 to april 1998. mr. abelenda joined mondel z international in 1984. ms. belcourt became executive vice president, strategy in october 2012. she joined mondel z international in september 2012. prior to that, she was a partner of bain &amp; company, a management consulting firm, from september 1999 to august 2012, where she specialized in the design and implementation of growth strategies to improve business performance across a variety of consumer industries. ms. belcourt was an assistant professor of economics at concordia university in montreal from 1994 to 1999 and served as an economic consultant to the u.s. agency for international development in africa in 1999 during her professorship. ms. belcourt also serves on the board of directors of ftd companies, inc., a floral and gifting provider. mr. clouse became executive vice president and president, north america in october 2012. prior to that, he served as president of the snacks and confectionery business in north america from june 2011 to october 2012 and senior vice president of the biscuits global category team from october 2010 to june 2011. he was managing director of kraft foods brazil from january 2008 to september 2010 and president of kraft foods greater china from january 2006 to january 2008. prior to that, mr. clouse held various positions of increasing responsibility around the world. before joining mondel z international in 1996, mr. clouse served in the united states army for seven years, obtaining the rank of captain. mr. cofer became executive vice president and president, asia pacific and eastern europe, middle east and africa in september 2013. prior to that, he served as executive vice president and president, europe, from august 2011 until september 2013, senior vice president, global chocolate category from june 2010 to august 2011, senior vice president, strategy and integration from january 2010 to june 2010, president of pizza from january 2008 to january 2010, senior vice president and general manager of oscar mayer from january 2007 to january 2008 and vice president and general manager of eu chocolate from june 2003 to january 2007. mr. cofer joined mondel z international in 1992. mr. kehoe became senior vice president, operating excellence in november 2013. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, corporate finance at kraft foods group, inc., the north american food and beverage company spun-off from mondel z international, from october 2012 until october 2013. mr. kehoe was employed continuously by mondel z international in various capacities from 1988 until 2012, including as senior vice president finance for north america from november 2010 to september 2012, senior vice president finance &amp; information services for europe from december 2005 to october 2010, vice president finance of central europe region from january 2005 to november 2005 and vice president corporate planning and analysis from april 2002 to december 2004. ms. may became executive vice president, global human resources in october 2005. prior to that, she was corporate vice president, human resources, for baxter international inc., a healthcare company, from february 2001 to september 2005. ms. may also serves on the board of directors of mb financial inc., a financial services provider. mr. myers is executive vice president, integrated supply chain, a position he has held since he joined mondel z international in september 2011. prior to that, he worked for procter &amp; gamble, a consumer products company, for 33 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as vice president, product supply for p&amp;g global hair care business from september 2007 to august 2011. mr. pleuhs became executive vice president and general counsel in april 2012. prior to that, he was senior vice president &amp; deputy general counsel, business units from november 2007 to march 2012 and senior vice president and deputy general counsel, international for kraft foods global, inc. from july 2004 to november 2007. before joining mondel z international in 1990, mr. pleuhs held a number of senior positions within the german law department of jacobs kaffee deutschland gmbh, an international beverage and confectionery company, prior to and after its acquisition by altria group, the former parent company of mondel z international. mr. pleuhs has a law degree from the university of kiel, germany and is licensed to practice law in germany. 8 table of contents ms. spence became executive vice president, research, development and quality in january 2004. prior to that, she served as senior vice president, research and development for kraft foods north america from august 2003 to january 2004 and senior vice president of worldwide quality, scientific affairs and compliance for kraft foods north america from november 2001 to august 2003. she joined mondel z international in 1981. ms. spence also serves on the supervisory board of gea group ag. mr. weber became executive vice president and president, europe in september 2013. prior to that, he served as president of the european and global coffee category from september 2010 until september 2013, president of the dach region (germany, austria and switzerland) from february 2009 to august 2010, managing director, spain from august 2007 to january 2009, vice president of global tassimo venture team from july 2004 to july 2007 and senior director, international sales, kraft foods international from january 2000 to june 2004. mr. weber joined mondel z international in 1988. ms. west became executive vice president and chief category and marketing officer in august 2010. prior to that, she served as executive vice president and chief marketing officer from october 2007 to july 2010, group vice president and president u.s. beverages from april 2006 to october 2007 and group vice president and president of u.s. grocery from november 2004 to april 2006. ms. west joined mondel z international in 1986. ms. west also serves on the board of directors of j.c. penney company, inc. ethics and governance we adopted the mondel z international code of conduct, which qualifies as a code of ethics under item 406 of regulation s-k. the code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. our code of ethics is available free of charge on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: corporate secretary, mondel z international, inc., three parkway north, deerfield, il 60015. we will disclose any waiver we grant to an executive officer or director under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of ethics, on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com . in addition, we adopted corporate governance guidelines, charters for each of the board three standing committees and the code of business conduct and ethics for non-employee directors. all of these materials are available on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder requesting a copy by writing to: corporate secretary, mondel z international, inc., three parkway north, deerfield, il 60015. available information our internet address is www.mondelezinternational.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. you can access our filings with the sec by visiting www.mondelezinternational.com . the information on our web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. you can also read, access and copy any document that we file, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for information on the operation of the public reference room. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including mondel z international, that are electronically filed with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully when evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters described in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. 9 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food and snacking industry is highly competitive. our principal competitors are major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas. we compete based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of sales and marketing, routes to market and distribution networks, promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. competitor and customer pressures may require that we reduce our prices. these pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. the emergence of new distribution channels, such as internet sales directly to consumers, may affect customer and consumer preferences. we may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect or increase market share. these expenditures are subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. if we reduce prices or our costs increase, but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset those changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. maintaining, extending and expanding our reputation and brand image is essential to our business success. we have many iconic brands with worldwide recognition. our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands into new geographies and to new distribution platforms, including online, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we seek to maintain, extend and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image. it could also lead to stricter regulations and more focus on food and snacking marketing practices. increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us or environmental and human rights risks in our supply chain could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers confidence and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or these matters are immaterial to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products (for instance, marketing to children). these restrictions may limit our ability to maintain, extend and expand our brand image, particularly as social media and the communications environment continue to evolve. negative posts or comments about us on social networking web sites (whether factual or not) could seriously damage our reputation and brand image across the various regions in which we operate. if we do not maintain, extend and expand our reputation and brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate globally. we are a global company and generated 83.1% of our 2013 net revenues, 82.9% of our 2012 net revenues and 83.7% of our 2011 net revenues outside the united states. we manufacture and market our products in approximately 165 countries and have operations in more than 80 countries, so we are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes, changes in tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes, fluctuations in currency values, especially in emerging markets, changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls such as the devaluation in venezuela in 2013, discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the credit worthiness of local governments, varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights, 10 table of contents greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, design and implementation of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base, and imposition of more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, and similar restrictions on our sales or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. we could also be adversely impacted by continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries in the european union or the dynamics associated with the federal and state debt and budget challenges in the united states. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets, including brazil, china, india, mexico, russia, venezuela, argentina, ukraine, the middle east and africa, and southeast asia. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries outside of the united states, particularly those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act, or local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and currency volatility, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the consolidation of retail customers creates larger retailers with increased influence in the marketplace. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the european union, the united states and our other major markets, continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers on which we can rely for business. consolidation also produces larger, more sophisticated retail customers that can resist price increases and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs or specifically tailored products. in addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. further retail consolidation and increasing retail power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers could adversely affect sales and our ability to supply products to our customers. during 2013, our five largest customers accounted for 15.0% of our net revenues. there can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales, or a change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 11 table of contents additionally, disputes with significant suppliers, including those related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. commodity and other input prices are volatile and may rise significantly or availability of commodities may become constrained. we purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including sugar and other sweeteners, coffee, cocoa, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils and dairy. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. prices for commodities, other supplies and energy are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, political conditions, severe weather, the potential longer-term consequences of climate change on agricultural productivity, consumer or industrial demand and changes in governmental trade, alternative energy and agricultural programs. many of the commodities we purchase are grown by smallholder farmers, who might lack the capacity to invest to increase productivity or adapt to these conditions. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our enterprise risk management program and seek to hedge against input price increases, continued increases in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer as a result. moreover, increases in the price of our products to cover these increased costs may result in lower sales volumes, while decreases could require us to lower our prices and thereby affect our revenues, profits or margins. likewise, constraints in the supply of key commodities may limit our ability to grow our net revenues. if we are not successful in our mitigation activities, if we are unable to price to cover increased costs or must reduce our prices, or if we are limited by supply constraints, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we must leverage our value proposition in order to compete against retailer brands and other economy brands. retailers are increasingly offering retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. our products must provide higher value or quality to our consumers than less expensive alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty such as those we continue to experience. consumers may not buy our products if the difference in value or quality between our products and retailer or other economy brands narrows or if consumers perceive a narrowing. if consumers switch to purchasing, or otherwise prefer retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or need to shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. this could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. changes in laws and regulations could increase our costs. our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. various laws and regulations govern food production, storage, distribution, sales, advertising and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, labor, tax and environmental matters, and health and safety practices. government authorities regularly change laws and regulations. our compliance with new or revised laws and regulations or their interpretation and application could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. we are a large food and snacking company operating in highly regulated environments and constantly evolving legal, tax and regulatory frameworks around the world. consequently, we are subject to greater risk of litigation, legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, our failure to maintain effective control environment processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. litigation, legal or tax claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may decide or be required to recall products or be subjected to product liability claims. selling products for human consumption involves inherent risks. we could decide to, or be required by law or regulation to recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 12 table of contents we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment against us, a related regulatory enforcement action or a widespread product recall may materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our products to our customers and our results of operations. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks and information systems that support our ability consistently to provide our products to our customers. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like weather, natural disasters, fire, explosions, terrorism, political unrest, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics, could damage or disrupt our operations, or our suppliers or co-manufacturers operations. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers. if that occurs, we may lose our customers confidence, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. in addition, we might not have the functions, processes or organizational capability necessary to achieve on our anticipated timeframes our strategic ambition to reconfigure our supply chain and drive efficiencies to fuel growth. these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, and offer new products to meet those changes. consumer preferences for food and snacking products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers around the world and to offer products that appeal to consumer preferences. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers or if we misjudge consumer demand for our products, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer. we must distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, including by geography, we must offer an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products will decrease and our profitability could suffer. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. for example, recently, consumers have increasingly focused on health and wellness, including weight management and reducing sodium consumption. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may be unsuccessful in these efforts. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage strategic transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we evaluate a variety of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority investments and other strategic alliances, that could further our strategic business objectives. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage the risks presented by these strategic transactions. strategic transactions may result in the diversion of management attention from our existing business and may present financial, managerial and operational risks. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable transactions; negotiate favorable contractual terms; comply with applicable regulations and receive necessary consents, clearances and approvals (including regulatory and antitrust clearances and approvals); integrate or separate businesses; realize the full extent of the benefits, cost savings or synergies presented by strategic transactions; effectively implement control environment processes with employees joining us as a result of transactions; minimize adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; achieve accurate estimates of fair value; minimize potential loss of customers or key employees; and minimize indemnities and potential disputes with buyers, sellers and strategic partners. 13 table of contents with respect to acquisitions and joint ventures in particular, we are also exposed to potential risks based on our ability to conform standards, controls, policies and procedures, and business cultures; consolidate and streamline operations and infrastructures; identify and eliminate redundant and underperforming operations and assets; manage inefficiencies associated with the integration of operations; and coordinate antitrust and competition laws in the u.s., the european union and other jurisdictions. joint ventures and strategic alliances pose additional risks, as ownership and management responsibilities are shared with one or more other parties who may not have the same objectives, priorities, strategies or resources as we do. furthermore, we may not be able to complete, on terms favorable to us, desired or proposed divestitures of businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or our growth or profitability targets. our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges or to take action to reduce costs that remain after a divestiture is completed. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may also affect our profitability. any of these risks and challenges could materially and adversely affect our business, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and stock price. the accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. these limitations include the possibility of human error, inadequacy or circumvention of controls and fraud. if we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or implement controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of our financial statements, we could be unable to file accurate financial reports on a timely basis, and our reputation, results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected. in connection with management assessment of internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as of december 31, 2013, we did not maintain effective monitoring and oversight of controls over the completeness, accuracy and presentation of our accounting for income taxes, including the income tax provision and related tax assets and liabilities. we determined that the ineffective monitoring and oversight of controls over income tax accounting constitutes a material weakness. see item 9a, controls and procedures , for a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and the material weakness. we have revised our first through third quarter 2013 and prior-year financial statements in this filing to reflect the related items in the appropriate periods, although the errors are not material to any previously reported financial results. if the new controls we are implementing to address the material weakness and to strengthen our overall internal control over accounting for income taxes are not designed or do not operate effectively, if we are unsuccessful in implementing or following these new processes or if we are otherwise unable to remediate this material weakness, we may not timely or accurately report our financial condition or results of operations. this could adversely affect investor and business partner confidence in our financial reports and our stock price. we are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2013, we manufactured and marketed our products in approximately 165 countries, had operations in more than 80 countries and made our products at 171 manufacturing and processing facilities in 58 countries. a significant portion of our business is exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. our financial results and capital ratios are sensitive to movements in currency exchange rates because a large portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes or converted into u.s. dollars to service obligations such as our u.s. dollar-denominated indebtedness and dividends. in addition, movements in currency exchange rates can affect transaction costs because we source product ingredients from various countries. we may seek to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, but our efforts may not be successful. accordingly, changes in the relative value of any two currencies that we use for transactions could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we are increasingly dependent on information technology. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. these information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties or used in connection with shared service centers, may be susceptible 14 table of contents to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers or other cybersecurity risks, telecommunication failures, user errors, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events. furthermore, any of the aforementioned impacts to our business could be prolonged to the extent such information technology systems are managed by third parties or used in connection with external shared service centers, as we will have to coordinate with such third parties for the resolution of any risks presented. if any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown, and our disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. in addition, if we are unable to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks and other information security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, suppliers or employees. the disclosure of non-public sensitive or protected information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image. misuse, leakage or falsification of legally protected information could also result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, damage our reputation and credibility, and have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid global capital markets and volatile global economic conditions could limit our access to the global capital markets, reduce our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs. from time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term global capital markets to obtain financing. our financial performance, our short- and long-term credit ratings, the liquidity of the overall global capital markets and the state of the global economy, including the food industry, will affect our access to, and the availability or cost of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the global capital markets on terms we find acceptable. we regularly access the u.s. and euro commercial paper markets for ongoing funding requirements. a downgrade in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could adversely affect our ability to issue commercial paper. disruptions in the global commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the global credit markets also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and could raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. our inability to access the global capital markets or an increase in our borrowing costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. volatility in the equity markets, interest rates or other factors could substantially increase our pension costs. we sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans for our employees throughout the world. at the end of 2013, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $11.2 billion and plan assets were $9.2 billion. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. our major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of investments, including equities and corporate debt. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, minimum funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which the plans operate, arrangements made with the trustees of certain plans and the market value of plan assets can affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost and increase our future funding requirements. legislative and other governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans benefits obligation. based on current tax laws, we estimate our 2014 pension contributions will be approximately $319 million. we also expect that our net pension cost will decrease to approximately $263 million in 2014 from $357 million in 2013. the decrease is primarily due to higher discount rates and favorable asset performance. however, volatility in the global capital markets may increase the risk that we are required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net pension cost beyond 2014. some of our pension trust assets are invested in european sovereign debt and subject to heightened risk that they could lose value as a result of political and financial turmoil in europe. 15 table of contents due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposure under those plans that extends beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our employees. our contributions to a multi-employer plan may increase beyond our bargaining obligations depending on the financial condition of the multi-employer plan. we may be required to participate in funding the unfunded obligations of the plan allocable to the withdrawing employer, and our costs might increase as a result. further, if we have a partial or complete withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan, we may be required to pay an amount to the plan based on our allocable share of the underfunded status of the plan. this liability will generally increase if other employers cease participating in the plan whether or not due to bankruptcy. (see note 10, benefit plans , to the consolidated financial statements for more information.) a significant increase in our pension funding requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to invest in the business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may be unable to hire or retain and develop key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce or manage changes in our workforce. our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to hire new personnel and then to develop and retain their skills and competencies. unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, or to hire and retain a diverse global workforce with the skills we need to operate and grow our business, could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. in addition, increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs could adversely affect our results of operations. furthermore, if we are unable to manage changes in our workforce appropriately or satisfy the legal requirements associated with how we manage and compensate our employees, our reputation, ability to meet the needs of our customers, product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and our inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by taking advantage of a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in various countries, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert management and other key personnel attention from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to pay monetary damages or enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as we operate globally, we use certain financial instruments to manage our foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain foreign currency, commodity price and interest rate risk management policies that principally use derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. we also sell commodity futures to unprice future purchase commitments, and we occasionally use related futures to cross-hedge a commodity exposure. we are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use financial instruments for speculative purposes. refer to note 1, summary of significant accounting policies, and note 9, financial instruments , to the consolidated financial statements for further details of our foreign currency, commodity price and interest rate risk management policies, the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge those exposures and currency risks associated with highly inflationary economies. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our foreign currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. we included our debt; foreign currency forwards and futures, swaps and options; and commodity futures, forwards and options in our var computation. excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to hedge. we made the var estimates assuming normal market conditions, using a 95% confidence interval. we used a variance / co-variance model to determine the observed interrelationships between movements in interest rates and various currencies. these interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate and forward currency rate movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2013 and 2012, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of foreign currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity, and were valued accordingly in the var computation. as of december 31, 2013, the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our foreign currency and commodity instruments, as calculated in the var model, were: pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/13 average high low at 12/31/13 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 44 $ 70 $ 112 $ 44 foreign currency rates $ 28 $ 19 $ 28 $ 13 commodity prices 25 18 25 14 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/12 average high low at 12/31/12 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 80 $ 133 $ 172 $ 80 foreign currency rates $ 10 $ 17 $ 24 $ 10 commodity prices 19 44 60 19 with the spin-off, a significant portion of our primarily u.s. derivative instruments were divested in the fourth quarter of 2012. the impacts presented in the table above have not been recast to reflect the divestiture for periods prior to the spin-off as it is impracticable to do so. this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum probable daily loss from adverse movements in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices under normal market conditions. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings we will incur, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in such market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in such market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 60 table of contentsrisk factors 9 6 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following are our executive officers as of february 20, 2015: name age title irene b. rosenfeld 61 chairman and chief executive officer brian t. gladden 49 executive vice president and chief financial officer gustavo h. abelenda 54 executive vice president and president, latin america tracey belcourt 48 executive vice president, strategy david a. brearton 54 executive vice president, strategic initiatives mark a. clouse 46 executive vice president and chief growth officer and executive vice president and president, north america timothy p. cofer 46 executive vice president and president, asia pacific and eemea lawrence macdougall 58 executive vice president and president, eemea karen j. may 56 executive vice president, human resources daniel p. myers 59 executive vice president, integrated supply chain gerhard w. pleuhs 58 executive vice president and general counsel jean e. spence 57 executive vice president, research, development and quality hubert weber 52 executive vice president and president, europe ms. rosenfeld became chief executive officer and director in june 2006 and became chairman of the board in march 2007. prior to that, she served as chairman and chief executive officer of frito-lay, a division of pepsico, inc., a food and beverage company, from september 2004 to june 2006. ms. rosenfeld was employed continuously by mondel z international and its predecessor, general foods corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including president of kraft foods north america and president of operations, technology, information systems and kraft foods, canada, mexico and puerto rico. mr. gladden became executive vice president and chief financial officer in december 2014. he joined mondel z international in october 2014. prior to that, he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of dell inc., a provider of technology products and services, from june 2008 until february 2014, and as president and chief executive officer of sabic innovative plastics, a manufacturer of industrial plastics, from august 2007 to may 2008. mr. gladden spent 19 years at the general electric company, a multinational conglomerate, in a variety of key leadership positions, including vice president and general manager, resin business and chief financial officer, ge plastics. mr. abelenda became executive vice president and president, latin america in january 2013. prior to that, he served as group vice president and president, latin america from august 2003 to december 2012, vice president and managing director, brazil from october 2000 to august 2003, food vice president, mercosur area from april 1998 to october 2000 and general manager, brazilian beverages and sugar confectionery business from february 1997 to april 1998. mr. abelenda joined mondel z international in 1984. ms. belcourt became executive vice president, strategy in october 2012. she joined mondel z international in september 2012. prior to that, she was a partner of bain &amp; company, a management consulting firm, from september 1999 to august 2012, where she specialized in the design and implementation of growth strategies to improve business performance across a variety of consumer industries. ms. belcourt was an assistant professor of economics at concordia university in montreal from 1994 to 1999 and served as an economic consultant to the u.s. agency for international development in africa in 1999 during her professorship. ms. belcourt also serves on the board of directors of ftd companies, inc., a floral and gifting provider. mr. brearton became executive vice president, strategic initiatives in december 2014. prior to that, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from may 2011 to november 2014, executive vice president, operations and business services from january 2008 to may 2011, executive vice president, global business services and strategy from april 2006 to december 2007 and senior vice president of business process simplification and corporate controller from february 2005 to april 2006. he previously served as senior vice president, finance for kraft foods international. mr. brearton joined mondel z international in 1984. mr. clouse became executive vice president and chief growth officer in july 2014 and has served as executive vice president and president, north america since october 2012. prior to that, mr. clouse served as president of the snacks and confectionery business in north america from june 2011 to october 2012 and senior vice president of the biscuits 7 table of contents global category team from october 2010 to june 2011. he was managing director of kraft foods brazil from january 2008 to september 2010 and president of kraft foods greater china from january 2006 to january 2008. prior to that, mr. clouse held various positions of increasing responsibility around the world. before joining mondel z international in 1996, mr. clouse served in the united states army for seven years, obtaining the rank of captain. mr. cofer became executive vice president and president, asia pacific and eemea in september 2013. prior to that, he served as executive vice president and president, europe, from august 2011 until september 2013, senior vice president, global chocolate category from june 2010 to august 2011, senior vice president, strategy and integration from january 2010 to june 2010, president of pizza from january 2008 to january 2010, senior vice president and general manager of oscar mayer from january 2007 to january 2008 and vice president and general manager of eu chocolate from june 2003 to january 2007. mr. cofer joined mondel z international in 1992. mr. macdougall became executive vice president and president, eemea in july 2014. prior to that, he served as president, eemea from november 2012 to july 2014 and as president, middle east and africa from march 2010 to october 2012. prior to its acquisition by mondel z international, mr. macdougall was continuously employed by cadbury pty ltd, a confectionery company, for 28 years in various leadership positions, most recently serving as president, middle east and africa from february 2007 to february 2010. ms. may became executive vice president, human resources in october 2005. prior to that, she was corporate vice president, human resources, for baxter international inc., a healthcare company, from february 2001 to september 2005. ms. may also serves on the board of directors of mb financial inc., a financial services provider. mr. myers became executive vice president, integrated supply chain in september 2011. prior to that, he worked for procter &amp; gamble, a consumer products company, for 33 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as vice president, product supply for p&amp;g global hair care business from september 2007 to august 2011. mr. pleuhs became executive vice president and general counsel in april 2012. prior to that, he was senior vice president &amp; deputy general counsel, business units from november 2007 to march 2012 and senior vice president and deputy general counsel, international for kraft foods global, inc. from july 2004 to november 2007. before joining mondel z international in 1990, mr. pleuhs held a number of senior positions within the german law department of jacobs kaffee deutschland gmbh, an international beverage and confectionery company, prior to and after its acquisition by altria group, the former parent company of mondel z international. mr. pleuhs has a law degree from the university of kiel, germany and is licensed to practice law in germany. ms. spence became executive vice president, research, development and quality in january 2004. prior to that, she served as senior vice president, research and development for kraft foods north america from august 2003 to january 2004 and senior vice president of worldwide quality, scientific affairs and compliance for kraft foods north america from november 2001 to august 2003. she joined mondel z international in 1981. ms. spence also serves on the supervisory board of gea group ag. mr. weber became executive vice president and president europe in september 2013. prior to that, he served as president of the european and global coffee category from september 2010 until september 2013, president of the dach region (germany, austria and switzerland) from february 2009 to august 2010, managing director, spain from august 2007 to january 2009, vice president of global tassimo venture team from july 2004 to july 2007 and senior director, international sales, kraft foods international from january 2000 to june 2004. mr. weber joined mondel z international in 1988. ethics and governance we adopted the mondel z international code of conduct, which qualifies as a code of ethics under item 406 of regulation s-k. the code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. our code of ethics is available free of charge on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: corporate secretary, mondel z international, inc., three parkway north, deerfield, il 60015. we will disclose any waiver we grant to an executive officer or director under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of ethics, on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com . 8 table of contents in addition, we adopted corporate governance guidelines, charters for each of the board four standing committees and the code of business conduct and ethics for non-employee directors. all of these materials are available on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder requesting a copy by writing to: corporate secretary, mondel z international, inc., three parkway north, deerfield, il 60015. available information our internet address is www.mondelezinternational.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). you can access our filings with the sec by visiting www.mondelezinternational.com . the information on our web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. you can also read, access and copy any document that we file, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for information on the operation of the public reference room. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including mondel z international, that are electronically filed with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully when evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters described in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food and snacking industry is highly competitive. our principal competitors include major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas as well as numerous local and regional companies. we compete based on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, service, product innovation, taste, convenience, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, effectiveness of sales and marketing, routes to market and distribution networks, promotional activity and price. if we do not effectively respond to challenges from our competitors, our business could be adversely affected. competitor and customer pressures may require that we reduce our prices. these pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. failure to effectively assess, change and set proper pricing may negatively impact the achievement of our strategic and financial goals. the emergence of new distribution channels, such as internet sales directly to consumers, may affect customer and consumer preferences, cost structures or margins. we may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect or increase market share. these expenditures might not result in trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. if we reduce prices or our costs increase but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset those changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. in addition, companies in our industry are under increasing pressure to improve the efficiency of their overall cost structures. we have announced a transformation agenda with the goals of focusing our portfolio, improving our cost structure and operating model, and accelerating our growth. if we do not achieve these objectives in a way that minimizes disruptions to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. maintaining, extending and expanding our reputation and brand image is essential to our business success. our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands into new geographies and to new distribution platforms, including online, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. 9 table of contents we seek to maintain, extend and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing attention from the media, shareholders, consumers, activists and other stakeholders on the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image. it could also lead to stricter regulations and increased focus on food and snacking marketing practices. increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, product quality and safety, or environmental and human rights risks in our supply chain could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers confidence and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or these matters are immaterial to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing marketing and media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of marketing and advertising campaigns. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products. these restrictions may limit our ability to maintain, extend and expand our brand image, particularly as social media and the communications environment continue to evolve. negative posts or comments about us on social networking web sites (whether factual or not) or security breaches related to use of our social media and failure to respond effectively to these posts, comments or activities could seriously damage our reputation and brand image across the various regions in which we operate. in addition, we might fail to invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image. as a result, we might be required to recognize impairment charges on our intangible assets or goodwill. if we do not successfully maintain, extend and expand our reputation and brand image, then our brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are subject to risks from operating globally. we are a global company and generated 82.1% of our 2014 net revenues, 83.1% of our 2013 net revenues and 82.9% of our 2012 net revenues outside the united states. we manufacture and market our products in approximately 165 countries and have operations in more than 80 countries, so we are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, including anti-bribery laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes; changes in tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes; currency devaluations or fluctuations in currency values, including in developing markets such as venezuela, argentina and russia as well as in developed markets such as countries within the european union; changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product or repatriate cash from outside the united states; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies; increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit ratings of governments; changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; design, implementation and use of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base; and the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or similar restrictions on our sales or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. the slowdown in economic growth or high unemployment in some emerging markets could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries in the european union or the dynamics associated with the federal and state debt and budget challenges in the united states could adversely affect us. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 10 table of contents our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets, including brazil, china, india, mexico, russia, venezuela, argentina, ukraine, the middle east, africa and southeast asia. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries outside of the united states, particularly those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act, or local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like weather, natural disasters, fire, explosions, terrorism, political unrest, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers or co-manufacturers operations. if we do not effectively respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers. if that occurs, we may lose our customers confidence, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. in addition, we might not have the functions, processes or organizational capability necessary to achieve on our anticipated timeframes our strategic ambition to reconfigure our supply chain and drive efficiencies to fuel growth. further, changes to regulatory restrictions within the markets in which we operate may impact our ability to supply multiple markets with a streamlined manufacturing footprint. these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2014, we sold our products in approximately 165 countries and had operations in more than 80 countries. a significant portion of our business is exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. our financial results and capital ratios are sensitive to movements in currency exchange rates because a large portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes or converted into u.s. dollars to service obligations such as our u.s. dollar-denominated indebtedness and dividends. in addition, movements in currency exchange rates can affect transaction costs because we source product ingredients from various countries. we seek to mitigate our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, primarily on cross-currency transactions, but our efforts may not be successful. accordingly, changes in the currency exchange rates that we use to translate our results into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes or for transactions involving multiple currencies could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. commodity and other input prices are volatile and may rise significantly or availability of commodities may become constrained. we purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, coffee, dairy, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, and nuts. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. prices for these raw materials, other supplies and energy are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict. these conditions include global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, political conditions, severe weather, the potential longer-term consequences of climate change on agricultural productivity, crop disease or pests, water risk, health pandemics, consumer or industrial demand, and changes in governmental trade, alternative energy and agricultural programs. many of the commodities we purchase are grown by smallholder farmers, who might lack the capacity to invest to increase 11 table of contents productivity or adapt to changing conditions. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices and hedge against input price increases, we cannot fully hedge against changes in commodity costs, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. continued volatility in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase or decrease the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer as a result. moreover, increases in the price of our products to cover increased input costs may result in lower sales volumes, while decreases in input costs could require us to lower our prices and thereby affect our revenues, profits or margins. likewise, constraints in the supply of key commodities may limit our ability to grow our net revenues. if our mitigation activities are not effective, if we are unable to price to cover increased costs or must reduce our prices, or if we are limited by supply constraints, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. changes in laws and regulations could increase our costs. our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. various laws and regulations govern food production, storage, distribution, sales, advertising and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, labor, tax and environmental matters, and health and safety practices. government authorities regularly change laws and regulations and their interpretations. our compliance with new or revised laws and regulations or the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may be unable to hire or retain and develop key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce or manage changes in our workforce. we must hire, retain and develop effective leaders and a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to hire new personnel in the many countries in which we manufacture and market our products and then to develop and retain their skills and competencies. unplanned turnover or failure to develop adequate succession plans for leadership positions or hire and retain a diverse global workforce with the skills and in the locations we need to operate and grow our business could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitiveness. we also face increased personnel-related risks in connection with implementing the changes in our transformation agenda related to our operating model and business processes. these risks could lead to operational challenges, including increased competition for employees with the skills we require to achieve our business goals, higher employee turnover, including of employees with key capabilities, and challenges in developing the capabilities necessary to transform our business processes. furthermore, we might be unable to manage changes in, or that affect, our workforce appropriately or satisfy the legal requirements associated with how we manage and compensate our employees. this includes our management of employees represented by labor unions or workers councils, who represent approximately 64% of our 91,000 employees outside the united states and approximately 28% of our 13,000 u.s. employees. these risks could materially and adversely affect our reputation, ability to meet the needs of our customers, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we must address risks related to consolidation of retail customers and leverage our value proposition in order to compete against retailer and other economy brands. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the european union, the united states and our other major markets, continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer but larger customers with whom we can conduct business. larger, more sophisticated retail customers and alliances among customers can resist price increases, delist or reduce the shelf space allotted to our products, and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, longer payment terms or specifically tailored products. in addition, larger retail customers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. our products must provide higher quality or value to our consumers than the less expensive alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if consumers perceive the difference in the quality or value between our products and retailer or other economy brands has narrowed. if consumers switch to purchasing or otherwise prefer retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or need to shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases. 12 table of contents if we do not effectively respond to retail consolidation, increasing retail power and competition from retailer and other economy brands, our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are subject to and may fail to manage changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers. during 2014, our five largest customers accounted for 15.7% of our net revenues. there can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. the loss of or disruptions related to significant customers, such as the disruptions we experienced in 2014 with customers in france, could result in a material reduction in sales or change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer. this could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, disputes with significant suppliers, including those related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may decide or be required to recall products or be subjected to product liability claims. we could decide, or laws or regulations could require us, to recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering. in addition, if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in this category. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment against us, a related regulatory enforcement action or a widespread product recall could materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we could be subject to legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. we are a large food and snacking company operating in highly regulated environments and constantly evolving legal, tax and regulatory frameworks around the world. consequently, we are subject to greater risk of litigation, legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate policies and procedures we have implemented to promote compliance with existing laws and regulations. moreover, our failure to maintain effective control environment processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. litigation, legal or tax claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or controls could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage strategic transactions. we evaluate a variety of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority investments and other strategic alliances that could further our strategic business objectives. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage the risks presented by these strategic transactions. strategic transactions may result in the diversion of management attention from our existing business and may present financial, managerial and operational risks. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable transactions; negotiate favorable contractual terms; comply with applicable regulations and receive necessary consents, clearances and approvals (including regulatory and antitrust clearances and approvals); integrate or separate businesses; realize the full extent of the benefits, cost savings or synergies presented by strategic transactions; effectively implement control environment processes with employees joining us as a result of a transaction; minimize adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; achieve accurate estimates of fair value; minimize potential loss of customers or key employees; and minimize indemnities and potential disputes with buyers, sellers and strategic partners. 13 table of contents with respect to acquisitions and joint ventures in particular, we are also exposed to potential risks based on our ability to conform standards, controls, policies and procedures, and business cultures; consolidate and streamline operations and infrastructures; identify and eliminate redundant and underperforming operations and assets; manage inefficiencies associated with the integration of operations; and coordinate antitrust and competition laws in the united states, the european union and other jurisdictions. joint ventures and strategic alliances pose additional risks, as we share ownership and management responsibilities with one or more other parties who may not have the same objectives, priorities, strategies or resources as we do. in may 2014, we entered into an agreement to combine our wholly owned coffee portfolio (outside of france) with d.e master blenders 1753 b.v., and in conjunction with that transaction, acorn holdings b.v., owner of d.e master blenders 1753 b.v., made a binding offer to receive our coffee business in france. we might not effectively separate our coffee business, integrate our operations into the new venture or complete the transaction on the anticipated timeframe. furthermore, we may not be able to complete, on terms favorable to us, desired or proposed divestitures of businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or our growth or profitability targets. our divestiture activities, or related activities such as reorganizations, restructuring programs and transformation initiatives, may require us to recognize impairment charges or to take action to reduce costs that remain after a divestiture is completed. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may also affect our profitability. any of these risks and challenges could materially and adversely affect our business, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand and offer new products to meet those changes. consumer preferences for food and snacking products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes, dietary habits, packaging and other preferences of consumers around the world and to offer products that appeal to these preferences. moreover, weak economic conditions, recession, equity market volatility or other factors could affect consumer preferences and demand. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers or if we misjudge consumer demand for our products, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer. we must distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, including by geography, we must offer an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products could decrease and our profitability could suffer. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. for example, recently, consumers have increasingly focused on health and wellness, including weight management and reducing sodium and added sugar consumption. in addition, consumer preferences differ by region, and we must monitor and adjust our use of ingredients to respond to these regional preferences. we might be unsuccessful in our efforts to effectively respond to changing consumer preferences and social expectations. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect us, and we have not maintained effective internal controls over our accounting for income taxes. the accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. these limitations include, among others, the possibility of human error, inadequacy or circumvention of controls and fraud. if we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or design and implement controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of our financial statements, we could be unable to file accurate financial reports on a timely basis. as a result, our reputation, results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected. 14 table of contents in connection with management assessment of internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2013, we determined that we did not maintain effective monitoring and oversight of controls over the completeness, accuracy and presentation of our accounting for income taxes, including the income tax provision and related tax assets and liabilities. we determined that the ineffective monitoring and oversight of controls over income tax accounting constituted a material weakness. as of december 31, 2014, we made substantial progress toward remediating the material weakness. see item 9a, controls and procedures , for a discussion of the material weakness and the progress on the remediation. if the new controls we have implemented to address the material weakness and to strengthen our overall internal control over accounting for income taxes are not designed or do not operate effectively, if we are unsuccessful in implementing or following these new processes or if we are otherwise unable to remediate this material weakness, we may not timely or accurately report our financial condition or results of operations. this could adversely affect our stock price and the confidence of investors, business partners and others in our financial reports. we are increasingly dependent on information technology. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. these information technology systems, many of which are managed by third parties or used in connection with shared service centers, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers or other cybersecurity risks, telecommunication failures, user errors, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events. furthermore, to the extent our information technology systems are managed by third parties or used in connection with external shared service centers, we would have to coordinate with these third parties to try to resolve issues related to these events. if any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown, and our disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. in addition, if we are unable to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks and other information security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, be subject to litigation or incur remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, suppliers or employees. the mishandling or inappropriate disclosure of non-public sensitive or protected information could lead to the loss of intellectual property, negatively impact planned corporate transactions or damage our reputation and brand image. misuse, leakage or falsification of legally protected information could also result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations and have a negative impact on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid global capital markets and volatile global economic conditions could limit our access to the global capital markets, reduce our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs. we may need to access the long-term and short-term global capital markets to obtain financing. our financial performance, our short-and long-term debt credit ratings, interest rates, the stability of financial institutions with which we partner, the liquidity of the overall global capital markets and the state of the global economy, including the food industry, will affect our access to, and the availability or cost of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the global capital markets on terms we find acceptable. we regularly access the commercial paper markets in the united states and europe for ongoing funding requirements. a downgrade in our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect our ability to issue commercial paper. disruptions in the global commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the global credit markets also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. limitations on our ability to access the global capital markets, a reduction in our liquidity or an increase in our borrowing costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 table of contents volatility in the equity markets, interest rates or other factors could substantially increase our pension costs. we sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans for our employees throughout the world. at the end of 2014, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $12.5 billion and plan assets were $9.6 billion. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. our major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of investments, including equities and corporate debt. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, minimum funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which the plans operate, the viability of other employers in the multiemployer pension plans in which we participate and the market value of plan assets can affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost and increase our future funding requirements. legislative and other governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans benefits obligation. volatility in the global capital markets may increase the risk that we are required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net pension cost. a portion of our pension trust assets is invested in european sovereign debt and subject to heightened risk that it could lose value as a result of political and financial turmoil in europe. due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposure under those plans that extends beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our employees. our contributions to a multi-employer plan may increase beyond our bargaining obligations depending on the financial condition of the multi-employer plan. we may be required to participate in funding the unfunded obligations of the plan allocable to a withdrawing employer, and our costs might increase as a result. further, if we have a partial or complete withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan, we may be required to pay an amount to the plan based on our allocable share of the underfunded status of the plan. this liability will generally increase if other employers cease participating in the plan whether or not due to bankruptcy. (see note 10, benefit plans , to the consolidated financial statements for more information on our multiemployer pension plans.) a significant increase in our pension benefit obligations or funding requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to invest in the business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and our failure to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable part of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by taking advantage of a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in various countries, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of third party claims of intellectual property infringement relating to our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert management and other key personnel attention from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to pay monetary damages or enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as we operate globally, we are primarily exposed to currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate market risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we principally utilize derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. for additional information on our derivative activity and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge our currency exchange, commodity price and interest rate exposures, see note 9, financial instruments . many of our non-u.s. subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates create volatility in our reported results as we translate the balance sheets, operating results and cash flows of these subsidiaries into the u.s. dollar for consolidated reporting purposes. the translation of non-u.s. dollar denominated balance sheets and statements of earnings of our subsidiaries into the u.s. dollar for consolidated reporting generally results in a cumulative translation adjustment to other comprehensive income within equity. a stronger u.s. dollar relative to other functional currencies adversely affects our consolidated earnings and net assets while a weaker u.s. dollar benefits our consolidated earnings and net assets. while we hedge significant forecasted currency exchange transactions as well as certain net assets of non-u.s. operations and other currency impacts, we cannot fully predict or eliminate volatility arising from changes in currency exchange rates on our consolidated financial results. see consolidated results of operations and results of operations by reportable segment under discussion and analysis of historical results for currency exchange effects on our financial results during 2014. for additional information on the impact of currency policies and the remeasurement of our venezuelan net monetary assets on our financial condition and results of operations, also see note 1, summary of significant accounting policies currency translation and highly inflationary accounting . we also continually monitor the market for commodities that we use in our products. input costs may fluctuate widely due to international demand, weather conditions, government policy and regulation and unforeseen conditions. to manage the input cost volatility, we enter into forward purchase agreements and other derivative financial instruments. we also pursue productivity and cost saving measures and take pricing actions when necessary to mitigate the impact of higher input costs on earnings. we regularly evaluate our variable and fixed-rate debt as well as current and expected interest rates in the markets in which we raise capital. our primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, corporate credit spreads, london interbank offered rates ( libor ), euro interbank offered rate ( euribor ) and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt based on current and projected market conditions. in addition to using interest rate derivatives to manage future interest payments, earlier this year and in the fourth quarter of 2013, we also retired $5 billion of our long-term debt and issued $6.3 billion of lower borrowing cost debt. our weighted-average interest rate on our total debt as of december 31, 2014 was 4.3%, down from 4.8% as of december 31, 2013. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. the var analysis was done separately for our currency exchange, fixed income and commodity risk portfolios as of each quarter end during 2014. the instruments included in the var computation were currency exchange forwards and options for currency exchange risk, debt and swaps for interest rate risk, and commodity forwards, futures and options for commodity risk. excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in non-u.s. subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to hedge. the var model assumes normal market conditions, a 95% confidence interval and a one-day holding period. a parametric delta-gamma approximation technique was used to determine the expected return distribution in interest rates, currencies and commodity prices for the purpose of calculating the fixed income, currency exchange and commodity var, respectively. the parameters used for estimating the expected return distributions were determined by observing interest rate, currency exchange, and commodity price movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2014 and 2013, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity and were valued accordingly in the var computation. 52 table of contents as of december 31, 2014, the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our currency and commodity instruments, as calculated in the var model, were: pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/14 average high low at 12/31/14 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 50 $ 41 $ 50 $ 30 foreign currency rates $ 51 $ 42 $ 58 $ 25 commodity prices 26 28 38 19 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/13 average high low at 12/31/13 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 44 $ 70 $ 112 $ 44 foreign currency rates $ 28 $ 19 $ 28 $ 13 commodity prices 25 18 25 14 this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum expected daily loss, under the specified confidence interval and assuming normal market conditions, from adverse movements in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings we will incur, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 10 7 executive officers of the registrant the following are our executive officers as of february 19, 2016: name age title irene b. rosenfeld 62 chairman and chief executive officer brian t. gladden 50 executive vice president and chief financial officer gustavo h. abelenda 55 executive vice president and president, latin america maurizio brusadelli 47 executive vice president and president, asia pacific mark a. clouse 47 executive vice president and chief commercial officer timothy p. cofer 47 executive vice president and chief growth officer roberto de oliveira marques 50 executive vice president and president, north america robin s. hargrove 50 executive vice president, research, development and quality lawrence macdougall 59 executive vice president and president, eemea karen j. may 57 executive vice president, human resources daniel p. myers 60 executive vice president, integrated supply chain gerhard w. pleuhs 59 executive vice president and general counsel hubert weber 53 executive vice president and president, europe ms. rosenfeld became chief executive officer and director in june 2006 and became chairman of the board in march 2007. prior to that, she served as chairman and chief executive officer of frito-lay, a division of pepsico, inc., a food and beverage company, from september 2004 to june 2006. ms. rosenfeld was employed continuously by mondel z international and its predecessor, general foods corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including president of kraft foods north america and president of operations, technology, information systems and kraft foods, canada, mexico and puerto rico. mr. gladden became executive vice president and chief financial officer in december 2014. he joined mondel z international in october 2014. prior to that, he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of dell inc., a provider of technology products and services, from june 2008 until february 2014, and as president and chief executive officer of sabic innovative plastics, a manufacturer of industrial plastics, from august 2007 to may 2008. mr. gladden spent 19 years at the general electric company, a multinational conglomerate, in a variety of key leadership positions, including vice president and general manager, resin business and chief financial officer, ge plastics. mr. abelenda became executive vice president and president, latin america in january 2013. prior to that, he served as group vice president and president, latin america from august 2003 to december 2012, vice president and managing director, brazil from october 2000 to august 2003, food vice president, mercosur area from april 1998 to october 2000 and general manager, brazilian beverages and sugar confectionery business from february 1997 to april 1998. mr. abelenda joined mondel z international in 1984. mr. brusadelli became executive vice president and president, asia pacific in january 2016. he previously served as president biscuits business, south east asia, japan and sales asia pacific from september 2015 to december 2015, president markets and sales asia pacific from september 2014 to september 2015, president united kingdom and ireland from september 2012 to august 2014 and president gum &amp; candy europe from december 2010 until august 2012. prior to that, mr. brusadelli held various positions of increasing responsibility around the world. mr. brusadelli joined mondel z international in 1993. mr. clouse became executive vice president and chief commercial officer in january 2016. he previously served as executive vice president and chief growth officer from july 2014 until december 2015 and executive vice president and president, north america from october 2012 to march 2015. he was president of the snacks and confectionery business in north america from june 2011 to october 2012, senior vice president of the biscuits global category team from october 2010 to june 2011, managing director of kraft foods brazil from january 2008 to september 2010 and president of kraft foods greater china from january 2006 to january 2008. prior to that, mr. clouse held various positions of increasing responsibility around the world. before joining mondel z international in 1996, mr. clouse served in the united states army for seven years, obtaining the rank of captain. 8 mr. cofer became executive vice president and chief growth officer in january 2016. prior to that, he served as executive vice president and president, asia pacific and eemea from september 2013 until december 2015, executive vice president and president, europe from august 2011 until september 2013, senior vice president, global chocolate category from june 2010 to august 2011, senior vice president, strategy and integration from january 2010 to june 2010, president of pizza from january 2008 to january 2010, senior vice president and general manager of oscar mayer from january 2007 to january 2008 and vice president and general manager of eu chocolate from june 2003 to january 2007. mr. cofer joined mondel z international in 1992. mr. de oliveira marques became executive vice president and president, north america in march 2015. prior to joining mondel z international, mr. de oliveira marques worked at johnson &amp; johnson, a global manufacturer of human health and well-being related products, for 27 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently as company group chairman, consumer north america from january 2011 to february 2015 and as company group chairman, consumer health care, global design unit from april 2007 to december 2010. mr. hargrove became executive vice president, research, development &amp; quality in april 2015. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, research, development &amp; quality for mondel z europe from january 2013 to march 2015. before joining mondel z international, mr. hargrove worked at pepsico, inc., a global food and beverage company, for 19 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently as senior vice president, research and development, europe from december 2006 to december 2012. mr. macdougall became executive vice president and president, eemea in july 2014. prior to that, he served as president, eemea from november 2012 to july 2014 and as president, middle east and africa from march 2010 to october 2012. prior to its acquisition by mondel z international, mr. macdougall was continuously employed by cadbury pty ltd, a confectionery company, for 28 years in various leadership positions, most recently serving as president, middle east and africa from february 2007 to february 2010. ms. may became executive vice president, human resources in october 2005. prior to that, she was corporate vice president, human resources for baxter international inc., a healthcare company, from february 2001 to september 2005. mr. myers became executive vice president, integrated supply chain in september 2011. prior to that, he worked for procter &amp; gamble, a consumer products company, for 33 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as vice president, product supply for p&amp;g global hair care business from september 2007 to august 2011. mr. pleuhs became executive vice president and general counsel in april 2012. in this role, mr. pleuhs oversees the legal, compliance, security, corporate and governance affairs functions within mondel z international. previously, mr. pleuhs served as senior vice president &amp; deputy general counsel, business units from november 2007 to march 2012 and senior vice president and deputy general counsel, international for kraft foods global, inc. from july 2004 to november 2007. before joining mondel z international in 1990, mr. pleuhs held a number of senior positions within the german law department of jacobs kaffee deutschland gmbh, an international beverage and confectionery company, prior to and after its acquisition by altria group, the former parent company of mondel z international. mr. pleuhs has a law degree from the university of kiel, germany and is licensed to practice law in germany. mr. weber became executive vice president and president europe in september 2013. prior to that, he served as president of the european and global coffee category from september 2010 until september 2013, president of the dach region (germany, austria and switzerland) from february 2009 to august 2010, managing director, spain from august 2007 to january 2009, vice president of global tassimo venture team from july 2004 to july 2007 and senior director, international sales, kraft foods international from january 2000 to june 2004. mr. weber joined mondel z international in 1988. 9 ethics and governance we adopted the mondel z international code of conduct, which qualifies as a code of ethics under item 406 of regulation s-k. the code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. our code of ethics is available free of charge on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: corporate secretary, mondel z international, inc., three parkway north, deerfield, il 60015. we will disclose any waiver we grant to an executive officer or director under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of ethics, on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com . in addition, we adopted corporate governance guidelines, charters for each of the board four standing committees and the code of business conduct and ethics for non-employee directors. all of these materials are available on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder requesting a copy by writing to: corporate secretary, mondel z international, inc., three parkway north, deerfield, il 60015. available information our internet address is www.mondelezinternational.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). you can access our filings with the sec by visiting www.mondelezinternational.com . the information on our web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully when evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters described in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food and snacking industry is highly competitive. our principal competitors include major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas as well as numerous local and regional companies. we compete based on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, service, product innovation, taste, convenience, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, effectiveness of sales and marketing, routes to market and distribution networks, promotional activity and price. if we do not effectively respond to challenges from our competitors, our business could be adversely affected. competitor and customer pressures may require that we reduce our prices. these pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. failure to effectively assess, change and set proper pricing may negatively impact the achievement of our strategic and financial goals. the emergence of new distribution channels, such as internet sales directly to consumers, may affect customer and consumer preferences, cost structures or margins, and we might not achieve our goal of developing and building an industry-leading e-commerce snacks business on our planned timeframe. we may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect or increase market share. these expenditures might not result in trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. if we reduce prices or our costs increase but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset those changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. in addition, companies in our industry are under increasing pressure to improve the efficiency of their overall cost structures. we have announced a transformation agenda with the goals of focusing our portfolio, improving our cost structure and operating model, and accelerating our growth. if we do not achieve these objectives and do so in a way that minimizes disruptions to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 10 maintaining, extending and expanding our reputation and brand image is essential to our business success. our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands into new geographies and to new distribution platforms, including online, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we seek to maintain, extend and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing attention from the media, shareholders, consumers, activists and other stakeholders on the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image. undue caution on our part in addressing these challenges could weaken our competitive position. such pressures could also lead to stricter regulations and increased focus on food and snacking marketing practices. increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, product quality and safety, or environmental and human rights risks in our supply chain could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers confidence and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or these matters are immaterial to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing marketing and media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of marketing and advertising campaigns. we are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products. these restrictions may limit our ability to maintain, extend and expand our brand image, particularly as social media and the communications environment continue to evolve. negative posts or comments about us on social networking web sites (whether factual or not) or security breaches related to use of our social media and failure to respond effectively to these posts, comments or activities could seriously damage our reputation and brand image across the various regions in which we operate. in addition, we might fail to invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image. as a result, we might be required to recognize impairment charges on our intangible assets or goodwill. if we do not successfully maintain, extend and expand our reputation and brand image, then our brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are subject to risks from operating globally. we are a global company and generated 78.7% of our 2015 net revenues, 82.1% of our 2014 net revenues and 83.1% of our 2013 net revenues outside the united states. we manufacture and market our products in 165 countries and have operations in more than 80 countries. therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in global operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, including anti-bribery laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes; changes in tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes; currency devaluations or fluctuations in currency values, including in developing markets such as argentina, brazil, china, russia, turkey and ukraine as well as in developed markets such as countries within the european union; changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product into various countries or repatriate cash from outside the united states; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies; increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit ratings of governments, particularly in our latin america and eemea regions; changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; design, implementation and use of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base; and the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or similar restrictions on our sales or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales. 11 in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. the slowdown in economic growth or high unemployment in some emerging markets could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries or the dynamics associated with the federal and state debt and budget challenges in the united states could adversely affect us. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets, including brazil, china, india, mexico, russia, argentina, ukraine, the middle east, africa and southeast asia. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries, particularly those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act, or local anti-bribery laws. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, such as the current year impact of deconsolidating and changing to the cost method of accounting for our venezuelan operations as discussed in this form 10-k or any potential impact on our business in venezuela from future economic or political developments. unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we have a complex network of suppliers and materials needs, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like weather, natural disasters, supply and commodity shortages, fire, explosions, terrorism, political unrest, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers or co-manufacturers operations. if we do not effectively respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers. if that occurs, we may lose our customers confidence, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. in addition, we might not have the functions, processes or organizational capability necessary to achieve on our anticipated timeframes our strategic ambition to reconfigure our supply chain and drive efficiencies to fuel growth. further, changes to regulatory restrictions within the markets in which we operate may impact our ability to supply multiple markets with a streamlined manufacturing footprint. these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2015, we sold our products in 165 countries and had operations in more than 80 countries. a significant portion of our business is exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. our financial results and capital ratios are sensitive to movements in currency exchange rates because a large portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes or converted into u.s. dollars to service obligations such as our u.s. dollar-denominated indebtedness and dividends. in addition, movements in currency exchange rates can affect transaction costs because we source product ingredients from various countries. we seek to mitigate our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, primarily on cross-currency transactions, but our efforts may not be successful. accordingly, changes in the currency exchange rates that we use to translate our results into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes or for transactions involving multiple currencies could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 12 commodity and other input prices are volatile and may increase or decrease significantly or availability of commodities may become constrained. we purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, dairy, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, and nuts. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. prices for these raw materials, other supplies and energy are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict. these conditions include global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, political conditions, severe weather, the potential longer-term consequences of climate change on agricultural productivity, crop disease or pests, water risk, health pandemics, consumer or industrial demand, and changes in governmental trade, alternative energy and agricultural programs. many of the commodities we purchase are grown by smallholder farmers, who might lack the capacity to invest to increase productivity or adapt to changing conditions. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices and hedge against input price increases, we cannot fully hedge against changes in commodity costs, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. continued volatility in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase or decrease the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer as a result. moreover, increases in the price of our products, including increases to cover higher input costs may result in lower sales volumes, while decreases in input costs could require us to lower our prices and thereby affect our revenues, profits or margins. likewise, constraints in the supply of key commodities may limit our ability to grow our net revenues and earnings. if our mitigation activities are not effective, if we are unable to price to cover increased costs or must reduce our prices, or if we are limited by supply constraints, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. changes in and inconsistencies among laws and regulations in many countries in which we operate could increase our costs. our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. various laws and regulations govern food production, storage, distribution, sales, advertising and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, labor, tax and environmental matters, and health and safety practices. government authorities regularly change laws and regulations and their interpretations. our compliance with new or revised laws and regulations or the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may be unable to hire or retain and develop key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce or manage changes in our workforce. we must hire, retain and develop effective leaders and a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to hire new personnel in the many countries in which we manufacture and market our products and then to develop and retain their skills and competencies. unplanned turnover or failure to develop adequate succession plans for leadership positions or hire and retain a diverse global workforce with the skills and in the locations we need to operate and grow our business could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitiveness. we also face increased personnel-related risks in connection with implementing the changes in our transformation agenda related to our operating model and business processes, including building a global shared services capability. these risks could lead to operational challenges, including increased competition for employees with the skills we require to achieve our business goals, higher employee turnover, including of employees with key capabilities, and challenges in developing the capabilities necessary to build a shared services function and transform our business processes. furthermore, we might be unable to manage changes in, or that affect, our workforce appropriately or satisfy the legal requirements associated with how we manage and compensate our employees. this includes our management of employees represented by labor unions or workers councils, who represent approximately 65% of our 87,000 employees outside the united states and approximately 30% of our 12,000 u.s. employees. these risks could materially and adversely affect our reputation, ability to meet the needs of our customers, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 13 we must address risks related to consolidation of retail customers and leverage our value proposition in order to compete against retailer and other economy brands. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the european union, the united states and our other major markets, continue to consolidate or form buying alliances, resulting in fewer but larger customers with whom we can conduct business. larger, more sophisticated retail customers and alliances among customers can resist price increases, delist or reduce the shelf space allotted to our products, and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, longer payment terms or specifically tailored products. retail customers might also adopt these tactics in their dealings with us in response to the significant growth in online retailing for consumer products, which is outpacing the growth of traditional retail channels. in addition, larger retail customers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. our products must provide higher quality or value to our consumers than the less expensive alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if consumers perceive the difference in the quality or value between our products and the retailer or other economy brands has narrowed. if consumers switch to purchasing or otherwise prefer the retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or need to shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases. if we do not effectively respond to retail consolidation, increasing retail power and competition from retailer and other economy brands, our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are subject to and may fail to manage changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers. during 2015, our five largest customers accounted for 17.0% of our net revenues. there can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. the loss of or disruptions related to significant customers, such as the disruptions we experienced in 2014 with customers in france, could result in a material reduction in sales or change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer. this could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, disputes with significant suppliers, including those related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers or operate our business and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may decide or be required to recall products or be subjected to product liability claims. we could decide, or laws or regulations could require us, to recall products due to suspected or confirmed and deliberate or unintentional product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering. in addition, if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in this category. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment against us, a related regulatory enforcement action or a widespread product recall could materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 14 we could be subject to legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. we are a large snack food company operating in highly regulated environments and constantly evolving legal, tax and regulatory frameworks around the world. consequently, we are subject to greater risk of litigation, legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate policies and procedures we have implemented to promote compliance with existing laws and regulations. moreover, our failure to maintain effective control environment processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. litigation, legal or tax claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or controls could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage strategic transactions. we regularly evaluate a variety of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority investments and other strategic alliances that could further our strategic business objectives. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage the risks presented by these strategic transactions. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable transactions; negotiate favorable contractual terms; comply with applicable regulations and receive necessary consents, clearances and approvals (including regulatory and antitrust clearances and approvals); integrate or separate businesses; realize the full extent of the benefits, cost savings or synergies presented by strategic transactions; effectively implement control environment processes with employees joining us as a result of a transaction; minimize adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; achieve accurate estimates of fair value; minimize potential loss of customers or key employees; and minimize indemnities and potential disputes with buyers, sellers and strategic partners. in addition, execution or oversight of strategic transactions may result in the diversion of management attention from our existing business and may present financial, managerial and operational risks. with respect to acquisitions and joint ventures in particular, we are also exposed to potential risks based on our ability to conform standards, controls, policies and procedures, and business cultures; consolidate and streamline operations and infrastructures; identify and eliminate redundant and underperforming operations and assets; manage inefficiencies associated with the integration of operations; and coordinate antitrust and competition laws in the united states, the european union and other jurisdictions. joint ventures and strategic alliances pose additional risks, as we share ownership and management responsibilities with one or more other parties who may not have the same objectives, priorities, strategies or resources as we do. in july 2015, we completed transactions to combine our wholly owned coffee businesses with those of demb to create a new company, jacobs douwe egberts, and we acquired an 80% interest in a biscuit operation in vietnam. in december 2015, we announced that we intend to exchange a portion of our equity ownership in jde for equity in the new holding company of keurig green mountain, inc. ( keurig ) in the event of a successful closing of the acquisition of keurig by an investor group led by jab holding co. transactions or ventures into which we enter might not meet our financial and non-financial control and compliance expectations or yield the anticipated benefits. depending on the nature of the business ventures, including whether they operate globally, these ventures could also be subject to many of the same risks we are, including political, economic and regulatory risks, currency exchange rate fluctuations, and volatility of commodity and other input prices. either partner might fail to recognize alliance relationships that could expose the business to higher risk or make the venture not as productive as expected. furthermore, we may not be able to complete, on terms favorable to us, desired or proposed divestitures of businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or our growth or profitability targets. our divestiture activities, or related activities such as reorganizations, restructuring programs and transformation initiatives, may require us to recognize impairment charges or to take action to reduce costs that remain after we complete a divestiture. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may also affect our profitability. any of these risks and challenges could materially and adversely affect our business, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 15 we must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand and offer new products to meet those changes. consumer preferences for food and snacking products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes, dietary habits, packaging and other preferences of consumers around the world and to offer products that appeal to these preferences. moreover, weak economic conditions, recession, equity market volatility or other factors could affect consumer preferences and demand. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers or if we misjudge consumer demand for our products, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer. we must distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those changing preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, including by geography, we must offer an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products could decrease and our profitability could suffer. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. for example, consumers have increasingly focused on health and wellness, including weight management and reducing sodium and added sugar consumption. in addition, consumer preferences differ by region, and we must monitor and adjust our use of ingredients to respond to these regional preferences. we might be unsuccessful in our efforts to effectively respond to changing consumer preferences and social expectations. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect us. the accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. these limitations include, among others, the possibility of human error, inadequacy or circumvention of controls and fraud. if we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or design and implement controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of our financial statements, including in connection with controls executed for us by third parties, we might fail to timely detect any misappropriation of corporate assets or inappropriate allocation or use of funds and could be unable to file accurate financial reports on a timely basis. as a result, our reputation, results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected. in connection with management assessment of internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2013, we determined that we did not maintain effective monitoring and oversight of controls over the completeness, accuracy and presentation of our accounting for income taxes, including the income tax provision and related tax assets and liabilities. we determined that the ineffective monitoring and oversight of controls over income tax accounting constituted a material weakness. as of december 31, 2015, we remediated this material weakness. see item 9a, controls and procedures , for a discussion of the material weakness and the remediation. if the new controls we implemented to strengthen our overall internal control over accounting for income taxes were not designed or do not continue to operate effectively or if we are unsuccessful in continuing to follow these new processes, we may not timely or accurately report our financial condition or results of operations. this could adversely affect our stock price and the confidence of investors, business partners and others in our financial reports. 16 we are increasingly dependent on information technology and third party service providers. we rely on information technology and third party service providers to process, transmit and store company information via business applications, internal networks and the internet. we use these technologies to support our global business processes and activities, including communicating with our employees, customers and suppliers; running critical business operations; meeting regulatory, legal and tax requirements; and executing various digital marketing and consumer promotion activities. these technologies and related information are subject to risks related to confidentiality, integrity and continuity, many of which are beyond our control. confidentiality and integrity of information may be jeopardized by deliberate or unintentional misuse, manipulation or disclosure of information; physical theft; or cybersecurity data breaches. we might face increased risk if our goal of increasing our revenues through new initiatives, including e-commerce, leads to an increase in the amount of confidential information that we process and maintain. continuity of business applications and services may be disrupted by errors in systems maintenance, migration of applications to the cloud, power outages, hardware or software failures, viruses or malware, cyber security attacks, telecommunication failures, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and other catastrophic events. should any of these risks materialize, the need to coordinate with various third party service providers might complicate our efforts to resolve the related issues. if our controls, disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we may experience delays in reporting our financial results. in addition, should confidential information belonging to us or our employees, customers, consumers, partners or suppliers be misused or breached, we may suffer financial losses relating to remediation, damage to our reputation or brands, loss of intellectual property or penalties or litigation related to violation of data privacy laws and regulations. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid global capital markets and volatile global economic conditions could limit our access to the global capital markets, reduce our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs. we access the long-term and short-term global capital markets to obtain financing. our financial performance, our short- and long-term debt credit ratings, interest rates, the stability of financial institutions with which we partner, the liquidity of the overall global capital markets and the state of the global economy, including the food industry, could affect our access to, and the availability or cost of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions and our ability to pay dividends in the future. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the global capital markets on terms we find acceptable. we regularly access the commercial paper markets in the united states and europe for ongoing funding requirements. a downgrade in our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect our ability to issue commercial paper. disruptions in the global commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the global credit markets also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. limitations on our ability to access the global capital markets, a reduction in our liquidity or an increase in our borrowing costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 17 volatility in the equity markets, interest rates, our participation in multiemployer pension plans or other factors could substantially increase our pension costs. we sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans for our employees throughout the world. at the end of 2015, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $11.1 billion and plan assets were $9.0 billion. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. our major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of investments, including equities and corporate debt. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, minimum funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which the plans operate, the viability of other employers in the multiemployer pension plans in which we participate and the market value of plan assets can affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost and increase our future funding requirements. legislative and other governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans benefits obligation. volatility in the global capital markets may increase the risk that we are required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net periodic pension cost. due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposure under those plans that extends beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our employees. our contributions to a multi-employer plan may increase beyond our bargaining obligations depending on the financial condition of the multi-employer plan. we may be required to participate in funding the unfunded obligations of the plan allocable to a withdrawing employer, and our costs might increase as a result. further, if we partially or completely withdraw from a multi-employer pension plan, we may be required to pay a partial or complete withdrawal liability. this withdrawal liability will generally increase if there is also a mass withdrawal of other participating employers or if the plan terminates. (see note 10, benefit plans , to the consolidated financial statements for more information on our multiemployer pension plans.) a significant increase in our pension benefit obligations or funding requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to invest in the business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and our failure to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable part of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by taking advantage of a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in various countries, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of third party claims of intellectual property infringement relating to our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert management and other key personnel attention from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to pay monetary damages or enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as we operate globally, we are primarily exposed to currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate market risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we principally utilize derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. for additional information on our derivative activity and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge our currency exchange, commodity price and interest rate exposures, see note 9, financial instruments . many of our non-u.s. subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates create volatility in our reported results as we translate the balance sheets, operating results and cash flows of these subsidiaries into the u.s. dollar for consolidated reporting purposes. the translation of non-u.s. dollar denominated balance sheets and statements of earnings of our subsidiaries into the u.s. dollar for consolidated reporting generally results in a cumulative translation adjustment to other comprehensive income within equity. a stronger u.s. dollar relative to other functional currencies adversely affects our consolidated earnings and net assets while a weaker u.s. dollar benefits our consolidated earnings and net assets. while we hedge significant forecasted currency exchange transactions as well as certain net assets of non-u.s. operations and other currency impacts, we cannot fully predict or eliminate volatility arising from changes in currency exchange rates on our consolidated financial results. see consolidated results of operations and results of operations by reportable segment under discussion and analysis of historical results for currency exchange effects on our financial results during 2015. for additional information on the impact of currency policies, the deconsolidation of our venezuelan operation and the historical remeasurement of our venezuelan net monetary assets on our financial condition and results of operations, also see note 1, summary of significant accounting policies currency translation and highly inflationary accounting . we also continually monitor the market for commodities that we use in our products. input costs may fluctuate widely due to international demand, weather conditions, government policy and regulation and unforeseen conditions. to manage the input cost volatility, we enter into forward purchase agreements and other derivative financial instruments. we also pursue productivity and cost saving measures and take pricing actions when necessary to mitigate the impact of higher input costs on earnings. we regularly evaluate our variable and fixed-rate debt as well as current and expected interest rates in the markets in which we raise capital. our primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, corporate credit spreads, london interbank offered rates ( libor ), euro interbank offered rate ( euribor ) and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt based on current and projected market conditions. in addition to using interest rate derivatives to manage future interest payments, during 2015, we retired $4.2 billion of our long-term debt and issued $4.5 billion of lower borrowing cost debt. our weighted-average interest rate on our total debt as of december 31, 2015 was 3.7%, down from 4.3% as of december 31, 2014. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. the var analysis was done separately for our currency exchange, fixed income and commodity risk portfolios as of each quarter end during 2015. the instruments included in the var computation were currency exchange forwards and options for currency exchange risk, debt and swaps for interest rate risk, and commodity forwards, futures and options for commodity risk. excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in non-u.s. subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to hedge. 57 the var model assumes normal market conditions, a 95% confidence interval and a one-day holding period. a parametric delta-gamma approximation technique was used to determine the expected return distribution in interest rates, currencies and commodity prices for the purpose of calculating the fixed income, currency exchange and commodity var, respectively. the parameters used for estimating the expected return distributions were determined by observing interest rate, currency exchange, and commodity price movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2015 and 2014, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity and were valued accordingly in the var computation. as of december 31, 2015, the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our currency and commodity instruments, as calculated in the var model, were: pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/15 average high low at 12/31/15 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 56 $ 60 $ 78 $ 50 foreign currency rates $ 16 $ 55 $ 103 $ 16 commodity prices 15 23 31 15 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/14 average high low at 12/31/14 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 50 $ 41 $ 50 $ 30 foreign currency rates $ 51 $ 42 $ 58 $ 25 commodity prices 26 28 38 19 this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum expected daily loss, under the specified confidence interval and assuming normal market conditions, from adverse movements in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings we will incur, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 58risk factors 9 executive officers of the registrant the following are our executive officers as of february 24, 2017: name age title irene b. rosenfeld 63 chairman and chief executive officer brian t. gladden 51 executive vice president and chief financial officer maurizio brusadelli 48 executive vice president and president, asia, middle east and africa timothy p. cofer 48 executive vice president and chief growth officer roberto de oliveira marques 51 executive vice president and president, north america robin s. hargrove 51 executive vice president, research, development and quality alejandro r. lorenzo 45 executive vice president and president, latin america karen j. may 58 executive vice president, human resources daniel p. myers 61 executive vice president, integrated supply chain gerhard w. pleuhs 60 executive vice president and general counsel hubert weber 54 executive vice president and president, europe ms. rosenfeld became chief executive officer and a director in june 2006 and became chairman of the board in march 2007. prior to that, she served as chairman and chief executive officer of frito-lay, a division of pepsico, inc., a food and beverage company, from september 2004 to june 2006. ms. rosenfeld was employed continuously by mondel z international and its predecessor, general foods corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including president of kraft foods north america and president of operations, technology, information systems and kraft foods, canada, mexico and puerto rico. mr. gladden became executive vice president and chief financial officer in december 2014. he joined mondel z international in october 2014. prior to that, he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of dell inc., a provider of technology products and services, from june 2008 until february 2014, and as president and chief executive officer of sabic innovative plastics, a manufacturer of industrial plastics, from august 2007 to may 2008. mr. gladden spent 19 years at the general electric company, a multinational conglomerate, in a variety of key leadership positions, including vice president and general manager, resin business and chief financial officer, ge plastics. 7 table of contents mr. brusadelli became executive vice president and president, asia pacific in january 2016 and executive vice president and president, asia, middle east and africa in october 2016. he previously served as president biscuits business, south east asia, japan and sales asia pacific from september 2015 to december 2015, president markets and sales asia pacific from september 2014 to september 2015, president united kingdom and ireland from september 2012 to august 2014 and president gum &amp; candy europe from december 2010 until august 2012. prior to that, mr. brusadelli held various positions of increasing responsibility around the world. mr. brusadelli joined mondel z international in 1993. mr. cofer became executive vice president and chief growth officer in january 2016. prior to that, he served as executive vice president and president, asia pacific and eemea from september 2013 until december 2015, executive vice president and president, europe from august 2011 until september 2013, senior vice president, global chocolate category from june 2010 to august 2011, senior vice president, strategy and integration from january 2010 to june 2010, president of pizza from january 2008 to january 2010, senior vice president and general manager of oscar mayer from january 2007 to january 2008 and vice president and general manager of eu chocolate from june 2003 to january 2007. mr. cofer joined mondel z international in 1992. mr. de oliveira marques became executive vice president and president, north america in march 2015. prior to joining mondel z international, mr. de oliveira marques worked at johnson &amp; johnson, a global manufacturer of human health and well-being related products, for 27 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently as company group chairman, consumer north america from january 2011 to february 2015 and as company group chairman, consumer health care, global design unit from april 2007 to december 2010. mr. hargrove became executive vice president, research, development &amp; quality in april 2015. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, research, development &amp; quality for mondel z europe from january 2013 to march 2015. before joining mondel z international, mr. hargrove worked at pepsico, inc., a global food and beverage company, for 19 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently as senior vice president, research and development, europe from december 2006 to december 2012. mr. lorenzo became executive vice president and president, latin america in january 2017. prior to that, he served as president, global biscuits category from january 2015 until december 2016; president, brazil from september 2012 to december 2014; vice president, strategy &amp; marketing, beverages and groceries from january 2011 to august 2012; and senior category director, beverages and groceries, brazil from july 2008 until december 2010. mr. lorenzo joined mondel z international in 2003. ms. may became executive vice president, human resources in october 2005. prior to that, she was corporate vice president, human resources for baxter international inc., a healthcare company, from february 2001 to september 2005. mr. myers became executive vice president, integrated supply chain in september 2011. prior to that, he worked for procter &amp; gamble, a consumer products company, for 33 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as vice president, product supply for p&amp;g global hair care business from september 2007 to august 2011. mr. pleuhs became executive vice president and general counsel in april 2012. in this role, mr. pleuhs oversees the legal, compliance, security, corporate and governance affairs functions within mondel z international. previously, mr. pleuhs served as senior vice president &amp; deputy general counsel, business units from november 2007 to march 2012 and senior vice president and deputy general counsel, international for kraft foods global, inc. from july 2004 to november 2007. before joining mondel z international in 1990, mr. pleuhs held a number of senior positions within the german law department of jacobs kaffee deutschland gmbh, an international beverage and confectionery company, prior to and after its acquisition by altria group, the former parent company of mondel z international. mr. pleuhs has a law degree from the university of kiel, germany and is licensed to practice law in germany and admitted as house counsel in illinois. mr. weber became executive vice president and president europe in september 2013. prior to that, he served as president of the european and global coffee category from september 2010 until september 2013, president of the dach region (germany, austria and switzerland) from february 2009 to august 2010, managing director, spain from august 2007 to january 2009, vice president of global tassimo venture team from july 2004 to july 2007 and senior director, international sales, kraft foods international from january 2000 to june 2004. mr. weber joined mondel z international in 1988. 8 table of contents ethics and governance we adopted the mondel z international code of conduct, which qualifies as a code of ethics under item 406 of regulation s-k. the code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. our code of ethics is available free of charge on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to: corporate secretary, mondel z international, inc., three parkway north, deerfield, il 60015. we will disclose any waiver we grant to an executive officer or director under our code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of ethics, on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com . in addition, we adopted corporate governance guidelines, charters for each of the board four standing committees and the code of business conduct and ethics for non-employee directors. all of these materials are available on our web site at www.mondelezinternational.com and will be provided free of charge to any shareholder requesting a copy by writing to: corporate secretary, mondel z international, inc., three parkway north, deerfield, il 60015. available information our internet address is www.mondelezinternational.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). you can access our filings with the sec by visiting www.mondelezinternational.com . the information on our web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully when evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters described in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food and snacking industry is highly competitive. our principal competitors include major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas as well as numerous local and regional companies. we compete based on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, service, product innovation, taste, convenience, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, effectiveness of sales and marketing, routes to market and distribution networks, promotional activity and price. if we do not effectively respond to challenges from our competitors, our business could be adversely affected. competitor and customer pressures may require that we reduce our prices. these pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. failure to effectively assess, timely change and set proper pricing or trade incentives may negatively impact the achievement of our strategic and financial goals. the rapid emergence of new distribution channels, such as e-commerce, may create consumer price deflation, affecting our retail customer relationships and presenting additional challenges to increasing prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. we may need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect or increase market share. these expenditures might not result in trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. if we reduce prices or our costs increase but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset those changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. in addition, companies in our industry are under increasing pressure to improve the efficiency of their overall cost structures. we are pursuing a transformation agenda with the goals of focusing our portfolio, improving our cost structure and operating model, and accelerating our growth. if we do not achieve these objectives or do not implement transformation in a way that minimizes disruptions to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 9 table of contents maintaining, extending and expanding our reputation and brand image is essential to our business success. our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands into new geographies and to new distribution platforms, including e-commerce, and expand our brand image with new and renewed product offerings. we seek to maintain, extend and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and both product renovation and innovation. failure to effectively address the continuing global focus on well-being, including weight management, changing consumer perceptions of certain ingredients, and increasing attention from the media, shareholders, consumers, activists and other stakeholders on the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image. undue caution on our part in addressing these challenges could weaken our competitive position. such pressures could also lead to stricter regulations and increased focus on food and snacking marketing practices. increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, product quality and safety, where we manufacture our products or environmental and human and workplace rights risks in our supply chain could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers confidence and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or these matters are immaterial to our operations. our sponsorship relationships could also subject us to negative publicity. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing marketing and media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of marketing and advertising campaigns. a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions limit how and to whom we market our products. these restrictions may limit our ability to maintain, extend and expand our brand image, particularly as social media and the communications environment continue to evolve. negative posts or comments about us on social networking web sites (whether factual or not) or security breaches related to use of our social media and failure to respond effectively to these posts, comments or activities could seriously damage our reputation and brand image across the various regions in which we operate. in addition, we might fail to invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image, and our marketing efforts might not achieve desired results. as a result, we might be required to recognize impairment charges on our intangible assets or goodwill. furthermore, third parties may sell counterfeit or spurious versions of our products that are inferior or pose safety risks. if that happens, consumers could confuse these counterfeit products for our products or have a bad experience with the counterfeit brand, causing consumers to refrain from purchasing our brands. if we do not successfully maintain, extend and expand our reputation and brand image, then our brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are subject to risks from operating globally. we are a global company and generated 75.6% of our 2016 net revenues, 78.7% of our 2015 net revenues and 82.1% of our 2014 net revenues outside the united states. we manufacture and market our products in approximately 165 countries and have operations in more than 80 countries. therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in global operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, including anti-bribery laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); compliance with antitrust and competition laws, trade laws, data privacy laws, anti-bribery laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes; changes in tax laws, including enactment of new u.s. and foreign jurisdiction tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes; currency devaluations or fluctuations in currency values, including in developing markets such as argentina, brazil, china, mexico, russia, turkey, egypt, nigeria, ukraine and south africa as well as in developed markets such as the united kingdom and other countries within the european union; the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or similar restrictions on our sales or key commodities like cocoa, potential changes in u.s. trade programs and trade relations with other countries, or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales; changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies such as demonetization in india or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product into various countries or repatriate cash from outside the united states; increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit ratings of governments, particularly in our latin america and amea regions; 10 table of contents changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; and design, implementation and use of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. high unemployment or the slowdown in economic growth in some markets could constrain consumer spending. as a branded food company that seeks to sell our products at a premium, declining consumer purchasing power could result in loss of market share and adversely impact our profitability. continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries or the dynamics and uncertainties associated with the united kingdom vote to exit the european union ( brexit ), including currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility in global stock markets, could have a negative effect on our business. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, results of operations, and our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees in the short or long term. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets, including among others brazil, china, india, mexico, russia, argentina, ukraine, the middle east, africa and southeast asia. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries, particularly those with emerging economies, engaging in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act, or local anti-bribery laws may be more common. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to achieving our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, such as occurred when we deconsolidated and changed to the cost method of accounting for our venezuelan operations at the close of 2015 or any potential impact on our business in venezuela from future economic or political developments. unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we have a complex network of suppliers and material needs, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like weather, natural disasters, supply and commodity shortages, fire, explosions, terrorism, political unrest, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers or co-manufacturers operations. if we do not effectively respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers and the quality and safety of our products might be negatively affected. if that occurs, we may lose our customers confidence or suffer damage to our reputation, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. in addition, we might not have the functions, processes or organizational capability necessary to achieve on our anticipated timeframes our strategic ambition to reconfigure our supply chain and drive efficiencies to fuel growth. further, our ability to supply multiple markets with a streamlined manufacturing footprint may be negatively impacted by portfolio complexity, changes in volume produced and changes to regulatory restrictions or labor-related constraints on our ability to adjust production capacity in the markets in which we operate. these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 11 table of contents we are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2016, we sold our products in approximately 165 countries and had operations in more than 80 countries. consequently, a significant portion of our business is exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. our financial results and capital ratios are sensitive to movements in currency exchange rates because a large portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes or converted into u.s. dollars to service obligations such as our u.s. dollar-denominated indebtedness and to pay dividends to our shareholders. in addition, movements in currency exchange rates can affect transaction costs because we source product ingredients from various countries. we seek to mitigate our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, primarily on cross-currency transactions, but our efforts may not be successful. accordingly, changes in the currency exchange rates that we use to translate our results into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes or for transactions involving multiple currencies could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. commodity and other input prices are volatile and may increase or decrease significantly or availability of commodities may become constrained. we purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, dairy, wheat, corn products, palm and other vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, and nuts. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. prices for these raw materials, other supplies and energy are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict. these conditions include global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, political conditions, severe weather, the potential longer-term consequences of climate change on agricultural productivity, crop disease or pests, water risk, health pandemics, consumer or industrial demand, and changes in governmental trade, alternative energy and agricultural programs. increasing focus on climate change, deforestation, water, animal welfare and human rights concerns and other risks associated with the global food system may lead to increased activism focusing on consumer goods companies, government intervention and consumer response, and could adversely affect our or our suppliers reputation and business and our ability to procure the materials we need to operate our business. many of the commodities we purchase are grown by smallholder farmers, who might lack the capacity to invest to increase productivity or adapt to changing conditions. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices and hedge against input price increases, we cannot fully hedge against changes in commodity costs, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. continued volatility in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase or decrease the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer as a result. moreover, increases in the price of our products, including increases to cover higher input costs, may result in lower sales volumes, while decreases in input costs could require us to lower our prices and thereby affect our revenues, profits or margins. likewise, constraints in the supply of key commodities may limit our ability to grow our net revenues and earnings. if our mitigation activities are not effective, if we are unable to price to cover increased costs or must reduce our prices, or if we are limited by supply constraints, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. complying with changes in and inconsistencies among laws and regulations in many countries in which we operate could increase our costs. our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. various laws and regulations govern food production, storage, distribution, sales, advertising, labeling and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, labor, tax and environmental matters, and health and safety practices. government authorities regularly change laws and regulations and their interpretations. our compliance with new or revised laws and regulations or the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. for instance, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected by the regulatory and economic impact of changes in taxation and trade relations among the united states and other countries or changes in the european union such as brexit. we may be unable to hire or retain and develop key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce or manage changes in our workforce. we must hire, retain and develop effective leaders and a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to hire new personnel in the many countries in which we manufacture and market our products and then to develop and retain their skills and competencies. unplanned turnover or failure to develop adequate succession plans for leadership positions or to hire and retain a diverse global workforce with the skills and in the locations we need to operate and grow our business could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitiveness. 12 table of contents we also face increased personnel-related risks in connection with implementing the changes in our transformation agenda related to our operating model and business processes, including building a global shared services capability and reconfiguring our supply chain. these risks could lead to operational challenges, including increased competition for employees with the skills we require to achieve our business goals; higher employee turnover, including of employees with key capabilities; and challenges in developing the capabilities necessary to build and effectively execute a shared services function and transform our business processes. furthermore, we might be unable to manage appropriately changes in, or that affect, our workforce or satisfy the legal requirements associated with how we manage and compensate our employees. this includes our management of employees represented by labor unions or workers councils, who represent approximately 65% of our 78,000 employees outside the united states and approximately 28% of our 12,000 u.s. employees. strikes, work stoppages or other forms of labor unrest by our employees or those of our suppliers or distributors, or situations like the re-negotiation of collective bargaining agreements covering eight u.s. facilities that expired in february 2016, could cause disruptions to our supply chain, manufacturing or distribution processes. these risks could materially and adversely affect our reputation, ability to meet the needs of our customers, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our retail customers are consolidating and we must leverage our value proposition in order to compete against retailer and other economy brands. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the european union, the united states and our other major markets continue to consolidate or form buying alliances, resulting in fewer, larger customers with whom we can conduct business. large retail customers and customer alliances can resist our efforts to increase prices, delist our products or reduce the shelf space allotted to our products, and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, longer payment terms or specifically tailored products. retail customers might also adopt these tactics in their dealings with us in response to the significant growth in online retailing for consumer products, which is outpacing the growth of traditional retail channels. in addition, larger retail customers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. our products must provide higher quality or value to our consumers than the less expensive alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if consumers perceive the difference in the quality or value between our products and the retailer or other economy brands has narrowed. if consumers switch to purchasing or otherwise prefer the retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes, or we may need to shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases. if we do not effectively respond to retail consolidation, increasing retail power and competition from retailer and other economy brands, our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we are subject to changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers. during 2016, our five largest customers accounted for 16.6% of our net revenues. there can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. the loss of or disruptions related to significant customers could result in a material reduction in sales or change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer. this could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers or operate our business and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 13 table of contents we may decide or be required to recall products or be subjected to product liability claims. we could decide, or laws or regulations could require us, to recall products due to suspected or confirmed and deliberate or unintentional product contamination, spoilage or other adulteration, product mislabeling or product tampering. in addition, if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in this category. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations or those of our suppliers violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our or our suppliers products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment against us, a related regulatory enforcement action, a widespread product recall or attempts to manipulate us based on threats related to the safety of our products could materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability, consumer fraud or other claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we could be subject to legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. we are a large snack food company operating in highly regulated environments and constantly evolving legal, tax and regulatory frameworks around the world. consequently, we are subject to greater risk of litigation, legal or tax claims, or other regulatory enforcement actions. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate policies and procedures we have implemented to promote compliance with existing laws and regulations. moreover, our failure to maintain effective control environment processes, including in connection with the development of our global shared services capability, could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. litigation, legal or tax claims, or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or controls could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage strategic transactions. we regularly evaluate a variety of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, equity method investments and other strategic alliances that could further our strategic business objectives. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage the risks presented by these strategic transactions. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable transactions; negotiate favorable contractual terms; comply with applicable regulations and receive necessary consents, clearances and approvals (including regulatory and antitrust clearances and approvals); integrate or separate businesses; realize the full extent of the benefits, cost savings or synergies presented by strategic transactions; effectively implement control environment processes with employees joining us as a result of a transaction; minimize adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; achieve accurate estimates of fair value; minimize potential loss of customers or key employees; and minimize indemnities and potential disputes with buyers, sellers and strategic partners. in addition, execution or oversight of strategic transactions may result in the diversion of management attention from our existing business and may present financial, managerial and operational risks. with respect to acquisitions and joint ventures in particular, we are also exposed to potential risks based on our ability to conform standards, controls, policies and procedures, and business cultures; consolidate and streamline operations and infrastructures; identify and eliminate redundant and underperforming operations and assets; manage inefficiencies associated with the integration of operations; and coordinate antitrust and competition laws in the united states, the european union and other jurisdictions. joint ventures and similar strategic alliances pose additional risks, as we share ownership and management responsibilities with one or more other parties who may not have the same objectives, priorities, strategies or resources as we do. strategic alliances we have entered into include combining our wholly owned coffee businesses with those of d.e master blenders 1753 b.v. ( demb ) to create a new company, jacobs douwe egberts ( jde ), in july 2015 and exchanging a portion of our equity ownership in jde for equity in the new holding company of keurig green mountain, inc. ( keurig ) in march 2016. transactions or ventures into which we enter might not meet our financial and non-financial control and compliance expectations or yield the anticipated benefits. depending on the nature of the business ventures, including whether they operate globally, these ventures could also be subject to many of the same risks we are, including political, economic and regulatory risks, currency exchange rate fluctuations, and volatility of commodity and other input prices. either partner might fail to recognize alliance relationships that could expose the business to higher risk or make the venture not as productive as expected. 14 table of contents furthermore, we may not be able to complete, on terms favorable to us, desired or proposed divestitures of businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or our growth or profitability targets. our divestiture activities, or related activities such as reorganizations, restructuring programs and transformation initiatives, may require us to recognize impairment charges or to take action to reduce costs that remain after we complete a divestiture. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may also affect our profitability. any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand and offer new products that meet those changes. consumer preferences for food and snacking products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes, dietary habits, packaging, sales channel and other preferences of consumers around the world and to offer products that appeal to these preferences. moreover, weak economic conditions, recession, equity market volatility or other factors could affect consumer preferences and demand. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers or if we misjudge consumer demand for our products, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer. we must distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those changing preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, including by geography, we must offer an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products could decrease and our profitability could suffer. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health, environmental and social implications of certain food products and ingredients could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. for example, consumers have increasingly focused on health and wellness, including weight management and reducing sodium and added sugar consumption. in addition, consumer preferences differ by region, and we must monitor and adjust our use of ingredients to respond to these regional preferences. we might be unsuccessful in our efforts to effectively respond to changing consumer preferences and social expectations. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we could fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. the accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. these limitations include, among others, the possibility of human error, inadequacy or circumvention of controls and fraud. if we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or design and implement controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of our financial statements, including in connection with controls executed for us by third parties, we might fail to timely detect any misappropriation of corporate assets or inappropriate allocation or use of funds and could be unable to file accurate financial reports on a timely basis. as a result, our reputation, results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected. we increasingly rely on information technology and third party service providers. we rely on information technology and third party service providers to process, transmit and store company information via business applications, internal networks and the internet. we use these technologies and third party service providers to support our global business processes and activities, including communicating with our employees, customers and suppliers; running critical business operations; engaging in mergers and acquisitions and other corporate transactions; conducting research and development activities; meeting regulatory, legal and tax requirements; and executing various digital marketing and consumer promotion activities. 15 table of contents working with these technologies and third party service providers creates risks related to confidentiality, integrity and continuity, and some of these risks may be outside of our control. confidentiality and integrity of information may be jeopardized by deliberate or unintentional misuse, manipulation or disclosure of information; physical theft; or cybersecurity data breaches by our employees, suppliers, hackers, criminal groups, nation-state organizations, social-activist organizations or other third parties. we currently utilize third party e-commerce providers and request that they have the appropriate cybersecurity controls and meet regulatory requirements. going forward, should we decide to transact e-commerce direct to consumers as the merchant, we would implement additional procedures, controls and technology to address cybersecurity and regulatory compliance. we might face increased risk if new initiatives such as e-commerce increase the amount of confidential information that we process and maintain, and the cybersecurity and compliance controls we or our third party providers implement are not effective. continuity of business applications and services may be disrupted by errors in systems maintenance, migration of applications to the cloud, power outages, hardware or software failures, viruses or malware, denial of service and other cyber security attacks, telecommunication failures, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and other catastrophic events. should any of these risks materialize, the need to coordinate with various third party service providers might complicate our efforts to resolve the related issues. if our controls, disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we may experience delays in reporting our financial results. in addition, should confidential information belonging to us or our employees, customers, consumers, partners, suppliers, or governmental or regulatory authorities be misused or breached, we may suffer financial losses relating to remediation, damage to our reputation or brands, loss of intellectual property, or penalties or litigation related to violation of data privacy laws and regulations. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid global capital markets and volatile global economic conditions could limit our access to the global capital markets, reduce our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs. we access the long-term and short-term global capital markets to obtain financing. our financial performance, our short- and long-term debt credit ratings, interest rates, the stability of financial institutions with which we partner, the liquidity of the overall global capital markets and the state of the global economy, including the food industry, could affect our access to, and the availability or cost of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions and our ability to pay dividends in the future. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the global capital markets on terms we find acceptable. we regularly access the commercial paper markets in the united states and europe for ongoing funding requirements. a downgrade in our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect our ability to issue commercial paper. disruptions in the global commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the global credit markets also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. limitations on our ability to access the global capital markets, a reduction in our liquidity or an increase in our borrowing costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. volatility in the equity markets, interest rates, our participation in multi-employer pension plans or other factors could substantially increase our pension costs. we sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans for our employees throughout the world. at the end of 2016, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $11.4 billion and plan assets were $9.5 billion. the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. our largest funded defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of investments, including equities and corporate and government debt. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which the plans operate, the viability of other employers in the multi-employer pension plans in which we participate and the market value of plan assets can affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost and increase our future funding requirements. legislative and other governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans benefits obligation. 16 table of contents volatility in the global capital markets may increase the risk that we are required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net periodic pension cost. due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposure under those plans that extends beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our employees. our contributions to a multi-employer plan may increase beyond our bargaining obligations depending on the financial condition of the multi-employer plan. we may be required to participate in funding the unfunded obligations of the plan allocable to a withdrawing employer, and our costs might increase as a result. further, if we partially or completely withdraw from a multi-employer pension plan, we may be required to pay a partial or complete withdrawal liability. this withdrawal liability will generally increase if there is also a mass withdrawal of other participating employers or if the plan terminates. (see note 9, benefit plans , to the consolidated financial statements for more information on our multi-employer pension plans.) a significant increase in our pension benefit obligations or funding requirements could curtail our ability to invest in the business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our failure to protect our valuable intellectual property rights could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable part of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by taking advantage of a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in various countries, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of third party claims of intellectual property infringement relating to our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert management and other key personnel attention from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to pay monetary damages or enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as we operate globally, we are primarily exposed to currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate market risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we principally utilize derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. for additional information on our derivative activity and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge our currency exchange, commodity price and interest rate exposures, see note 8, financial instruments . many of our non-u.s. subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates create volatility in our reported results as we translate the balance sheets, operating results and cash flows of these subsidiaries into the u.s. dollar for consolidated reporting purposes. the translation of non-u.s. dollar denominated balance sheets and statements of earnings of our subsidiaries into the u.s. dollar for consolidated reporting generally results in a cumulative translation adjustment to other comprehensive income within equity. a stronger u.s. dollar relative to other functional currencies adversely affects our consolidated earnings and net assets while a weaker u.s. dollar benefits our consolidated earnings and net assets. while we hedge significant forecasted currency exchange transactions as well as certain net assets of non-u.s. operations and other currency impacts, we cannot fully predict or eliminate volatility arising from changes in currency exchange rates on our consolidated financial results. see consolidated results of operations and results of operations by reportable segment under discussion and analysis of historical results for currency exchange effects on our financial results. for additional information on the impact of currency policies, brexit, recent currency devaluations, the deconsolidation of our venezuelan operation and the historical remeasurement of our venezuelan net monetary assets on our financial condition and results of operations, also see note 1, summary of significant accounting policies currency translation and highly inflationary accounting . we also continually monitor the market for commodities that we use in our products. input costs may fluctuate widely due to international demand, weather conditions, government policy and regulation and unforeseen conditions. to manage input cost volatility, we enter into forward purchase agreements and other derivative financial instruments. we also pursue productivity and cost saving measures and take pricing actions when necessary to mitigate the impact of higher input costs on earnings. we regularly evaluate our variable and fixed-rate debt as well as current and expected interest rates in the markets in which we raise capital. our primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, corporate credit spreads, london interbank offered rates ( libor ), euro interbank offered rate ( euribor ) and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt based on current and projected market conditions. in addition to using interest rate derivatives to manage future interest payments, during 2016, we retired $6.2 billion of our long-term debt and related costs and issued $6.4 billion of lower borrowing cost debt. our weighted-average interest rate on our total debt as of december 31, 2016 was 2.2%, down from 3.7% as of december 31, 2015. there were no significant changes in the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge our exposures between december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2016. see note 8, financial instruments , for more information on 2016 derivative activity. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. the var analysis was done separately for our currency exchange, fixed income and commodity risk portfolios as of each quarter end during the periods presented below. the instruments included in the var computation were currency exchange forwards and options for currency exchange risk, debt and swaps for interest rate risk, and commodity forwards, futures and options for commodity risk. excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in non-u.s. subsidiaries, which the above-mentioned instruments are intended to hedge. 58 table of contents the var model assumes normal market conditions, a 95% confidence interval and a one-day holding period. a parametric delta-gamma approximation technique was used to determine the expected return distribution in interest rates, currencies and commodity prices for the purpose of calculating the fixed income, currency exchange and commodity var, respectively. the parameters used for estimating the expected return distributions were determined by observing interest rate, currency exchange, and commodity price movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2016 and 2015, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity and were valued accordingly in the var computation. as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015, the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our currency and commodity instruments, as calculated in the var model, were: pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/16 average high low at 12/31/16 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 62 $ 62 $ 91 $ 45 foreign currency rates $ 10 $ 18 $ 26 $ 10 commodity prices 16 12 16 10 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/15 average high low at 12/31/15 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 56 $ 60 $ 78 $ 50 foreign currency rates $ 16 $ 55 $ 103 $ 16 commodity prices 15 23 31 15 the impacts in the 2015 tables above have not been recast to reflect the deconsolidation of our legacy coffee business or venezuela business and the related derivative activity for those businesses as it is impracticable to do so. this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum expected daily loss, under the specified confidence interval and assuming normal market conditions, from adverse movements in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings we will incur, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 59 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors. you should read the following risk factors carefully when evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters described in this annual report on form 10-k. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial condition in the future. 9 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food and snacking industry is highly competitive. our principal competitors include major international food, snack and beverage companies that operate in multiple geographic areas and numerous local and regional companies. if we do not effectively respond to challenges from our competitors, our business could be adversely affected. competitor and customer pressures may require that we reduce our prices. these pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. failure to effectively and timely assess, change and set proper pricing or effective trade incentives may negatively impact our operating results and achievement of our strategic and financial goals. the rapid emergence of new distribution channels, such as e-commerce, may create consumer price deflation, affecting our retail customer relationships and presenting additional challenges to increasing prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. we may need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, advertising, new product innovation, and existing and new distribution channels to protect or increase market share. these expenditures might not result in trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. if we reduce prices or our costs increase but we cannot increase sales volumes to offset those changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. in addition, like other companies in our industry, we are under pressure to continue to improve the efficiency of our overall cost structure. we are pursuing a transformation agenda with the goals of focusing our portfolio, improving our cost structure and operating model, and accelerating our growth. if we do not achieve these objectives or do not implement transformation in a way that minimizes disruptions to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. maintaining and enhancing our reputation and brand image is essential to our business success. our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand quality and image, extend our brands into new geographies and to new distribution platforms, including e-commerce, and expand our brand image with new and renewed product offerings. we seek to enhance our brand image through product renovation, innovation and marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions. failure to effectively address the continuing global focus on well-being, changing consumer perceptions of certain ingredients, nutritional expectations of our products, and increased attention from the media, shareholders, activists and other stakeholders on the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image. undue caution or inaction on our part in addressing these challenges and trends could weaken our competitive position. such pressures could also lead to stricter regulations and increased focus on food and snacking marketing practices. increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and labeling, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity or regulatory or legal action against us on product quality and safety, where we manufacture our products, or environmental risks or human and workplace rights across our supply chain could damage our reputation and brand image. such actions could undermine our customers confidence and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or these matters are immaterial to our operations. our product sponsorship relationships could also subject us to negative publicity. in addition, our success in maintaining and enhancing our brand image depends on our ability to anticipate change and adapt to a rapidly changing marketing and media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of marketing and advertising campaigns. a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions limit how and to whom we market our products. these restrictions may limit our brand renovation, innovation and promotion plans, particularly as social media and the communications environment continue to evolve. negative posts or comments about us or our brands on social media or web sites (whether factual or not) or security breaches related to use of our social media and failure to respond effectively to these posts, comments or activities could seriously damage our reputation and brand image across the various regions in which we operate. in addition, we might fail to invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brands, our marketing efforts might not achieve desired results and we might be required to recognize impairment charges on our brands or related intangible assets or goodwill. furthermore, third parties may sell counterfeit or spurious versions of our products that are inferior or pose safety risks. if consumers confuse these counterfeit products for our products or have a bad experience with the counterfeit brand, they might refrain from purchasing our brands in the future, which could harm our brand image and sales. if we do not successfully maintain and enhance our reputation and brand image, then our brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 10 table of contents we are subject to risks from operating globally. we are a global company and generated 75.8% of our 2017 net revenues, 75.6% of our 2016 net revenues and 78.7% of our 2015 net revenues outside the united states. we manufacture and market our products in approximately 160 countries and have operations in more than 80 countries. therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in global operations. those risks include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, including anti-bribery laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ); compliance with antitrust and competition laws, trade laws, data privacy laws, anti-bribery laws, and a variety of other local, national and multinational regulations and laws in multiple regimes; currency devaluations or fluctuations in currency values, including in developing markets such as argentina, brazil, china, mexico, russia, turkey, egypt, nigeria, ukraine and south africa as well as in developed markets such as the united kingdom and other countries within the european union; the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or similar restrictions on our sales or key commodities like cocoa, potential changes in u.s. trade programs and trade relations with other countries, or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales; changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies such as demonetization in india or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product into various countries or repatriate cash from outside the united states; increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit ratings of governments, particularly in our latin america and amea regions; changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in non-u.s. jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; and design, implementation and use of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, travel or immigration restrictions, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. high unemployment or the slowdown in economic growth in some markets could constrain consumer spending. declining consumer purchasing power could result in loss of market share and adversely impact our profitability. continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries or the dynamics and uncertainties associated with the united kingdom planned exit from the european union ( brexit ), including currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility in global stock markets, could have a negative effect on our business. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, results of operations, and our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees in the short or long term. tax matters, including changes in tax laws and rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes, could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. in december 2017, the united states enacted tax reform legislation ( u.s. tax reform ). the legislation implements many new u.s. domestic and international tax provisions. many aspects of the u.s. tax reform are unclear, and although additional clarifying guidance is expected to be issued in the future (by the internal revenue service ( irs ), the u.s. treasury department or via a technical correction law change), it may not be clarified for some time. in addition, many u.s. states have not yet updated their laws to take into account the new federal legislation. as a result, we have not yet been able to determine the full impact of the new laws on our results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that u.s. tax reform, or interpretations under it, could change and could have an adverse effect on us, and such effect could be material. 11 table of contents in addition, foreign jurisdictions may also enact tax legislation that could significantly affect our ongoing operations. for example, foreign tax authorities could impose rate changes along with additional corporate tax provisions that would disallow or tax perceived base erosion or profit shifting. aspects of u.s. tax reform may lead foreign jurisdictions to respond by enacting additional tax legislation that is unfavorable to us. adverse changes in the underlying profitability or financial outlook of our operations in several jurisdictions could lead to changes in the realizability of our deferred tax assets and result in a charge to our income tax provision. additionally, changes in tax laws in the u.s. or in other countries where we have significant operations could materially affect deferred tax assets and liabilities and our income tax provision. we are also subject to tax audits by governmental authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties. unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could significantly adversely affect our income tax provision and our results of operations. our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets, including among others brazil, china, india, mexico, russia, argentina, ukraine, the middle east, africa and southeast asia. however, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. in many countries, particularly those with emerging economies, engaging in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the fcpa and the u.k. bribery act, or local anti-bribery laws may be more common. these laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers improve and expand their production capacities. our success in emerging markets is critical to achieving our growth strategy. if we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, such as occurred when we deconsolidated and changed to the cost method of accounting for our venezuelan operations at the close of 2015 or any potential impact on our business in venezuela from future economic or political developments. our use of information technology and third party service providers exposes us to cybersecurity breaches and other business disruptions that could adversely affect us. we use information technology and third party service providers to support our global business processes and activities, including supporting critical business operations; communicating with our suppliers, customers and employees; maintaining effective accounting processes and financial and disclosure controls; engaging in mergers and acquisitions and other corporate transactions; conducting research and development activities; meeting regulatory, legal and tax requirements; and executing various digital marketing and consumer promotion activities. global shared service centers managed by third parties provide an increasing amount of services to conduct our business, including a number of accounting, internal control, human resources and computing functions. 12 table of contents continuity of business applications and services has been, and may in the future be, disrupted by events such as infection by viruses or malware, like the global malware incident in june 2017 that affected a significant portion of our global sales, distribution and financial networks (the malware incident ) (see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations malware incident ); other cybersecurity attacks; issues with or errors in systems maintenance or security; migration of applications to the cloud; power outages; hardware or software failures; denial of service; telecommunication failures; natural disasters; terrorist attacks; and other catastrophic occurrences. further, cybersecurity breaches of our or third party systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyberattacks, hacking, phishing attacks, computer viruses, ransomware or malware, employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions may cause confidential information belonging to us or our employees, customers, consumers, partners, suppliers, or governmental or regulatory authorities to be misused or breached. when risks such as these materialize, the need for us to coordinate with various third party service providers and for third party service providers to coordinate amongst themselves might make it more challenging to resolve the related issues. additionally, if new initiatives, such as those related to e-commerce and direct sales, increase the amount of confidential information that we process and maintain, this could increase our potential exposure to a cybersecurity breach. if our controls, disaster recovery and business continuity plans or those of our third party providers do not effectively respond to or resolve the issues related to any such disruptions in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we might experience delays in reporting our financial results, loss of intellectual property and damage to our reputation or brands. we continue to devote focused resources to network security, backup and disaster recovery, enhanced training and other security measures to protect our systems and data; we are also in the process of enhancing the monitoring and detection of threats in our environment. however, security measures cannot provide absolute security or guarantee that we will be successful in preventing or responding to every breach or disruption on a timely basis. in addition, due to the constantly evolving nature of security threats, we cannot predict the form and impact of any future incident, and the cost and operational expense of implementing, maintaining and enhancing protective measures to guard against increasingly complex and sophisticated cyber threats could increase significantly. we regularly move data across national borders to conduct our operations and consequently are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data. privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. the european union general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of european union law and becomes effective in may 2018, adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and imposes substantial penalties for non-compliance of up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of global annual revenue for the preceding financial year. our efforts to comply with gdpr and other privacy and data protection laws may impose significant costs and challenges that are likely to increase over time, and we could incur substantial penalties or litigation related to violation of existing or future data privacy laws and regulations. unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. we utilize an integrated supply chain a complex network of suppliers and material needs, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks, shared service delivery centers and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like weather (including any potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, supply and commodity shortages, fire, explosions, terrorism, political unrest, cybersecurity breaches, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers or co-manufacturers operations. if we do not effectively respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key or sole manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers such as occurred in connection with the malware incident (see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations malware incident ), and the quality and safety of our products might be negatively affected. if a material or extended disruption occurs, we may lose our customers or business partners confidence or suffer damage to our reputation, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. in addition, we might not have the functions, processes or organizational capability necessary to achieve on our anticipated timeframes our strategic ambition to reconfigure our supply chain and drive efficiencies to fuel growth. further, our ability to supply 13 table of contents multiple markets with a streamlined manufacturing footprint may be negatively impacted by portfolio complexity, significant changes in trade policies, changes in volume produced and changes to regulatory restrictions or labor-related constraints on our ability to adjust production capacity in the markets in which we operate. these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2017, we sold our products in approximately 160 countries and had operations in more than 80 countries. consequently, a significant portion of our business is exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. our financial results and capital ratios are sensitive to movements in currency exchange rates because a large portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated into u.s. dollars for reporting purposes or converted into u.s. dollars to service obligations such as our u.s. dollar-denominated indebtedness and to pay dividends to our shareholders. in addition, movements in currency exchange rates can affect transaction costs because we source product ingredients from various countries. we seek to mitigate our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, primarily on cross-currency transactions, but our efforts may not be successful. accordingly, changes in the currency exchange rates that we use to translate our results into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes or for transactions involving multiple currencies could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. commodity and other input prices are volatile and may increase or decrease significantly or availability of commodities may become constrained. we purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, dairy, wheat, palm and other vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, flavoring agents and nuts. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. prices for these raw materials, other supplies and energy are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict. these conditions include global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, political conditions, severe weather, the potential longer-term consequences of climate change on agricultural productivity, crop disease or pests, water risk, health pandemics, consumer or industrial demand, and changes in governmental trade, alternative energy and agricultural programs. increasing focus on climate change, deforestation, water, plastic waste, animal welfare and human rights concerns and other risks associated with the global food system may lead to increased government intervention and consumer or activist responses, and could adversely affect our or our suppliers reputation and business and our ability to procure the materials we need to operate our business. many of the commodities we purchase are grown by smallholder farmers, and they might lack the capacity to invest to increase productivity or adapt to changing conditions. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices and hedge against input price increases, we cannot fully hedge against changes in commodity costs, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. continued volatility in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase or changes in the types of commodities we purchase as we continue to evolve our product and packaging portfolio could increase or decrease the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer as a result. moreover, increases in the price of our products, including increases to cover higher input costs, may result in lower sales volumes, while decreases in input costs could require us to lower our prices and thereby affect our revenues, profits or margins. likewise, constraints in the supply of key commodities may limit our ability to grow our net revenues and earnings. if our mitigation activities are not effective, if we are unable to price to cover increased costs or must reduce our prices, or if we are limited by supply constraints, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. complying with changes in and inconsistencies among laws and regulations in many countries in which we operate could increase our costs. our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. various laws and regulations govern food production, packaging, storage, distribution, sales, advertising, labeling and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, labor, tax and environmental matters, and health and safety practices. government authorities regularly change laws and regulations as well as their interpretations. our compliance with new or revised laws and regulations or the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. for instance, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected by the regulatory and economic impact of changes in taxation and trade relations among the united states and other countries, including any changes to or repeal of the north american free trade agreement, or changes in the european union such as brexit. 14 table of contents we may be unable to hire or retain and develop key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce or manage changes in our workforce. we must hire, retain and develop effective leaders and a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we compete to hire new personnel with a variety of capabilities in the many countries in which we manufacture and market our products and then to develop and retain their skills and competencies. unplanned turnover, failure to attract and develop personnel with key emerging capabilities such as e-commerce and digital marketing skills, or failure to develop adequate succession plans for leadership positions or to hire and retain a diverse global workforce with the skills and in the locations we need to operate and grow our business could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitiveness. changes in immigration laws and policies could also make it more difficult for us to recruit or relocate skilled employees. we also face increased personnel-related risks in connection with implementing the changes in our transformation agenda related to our operating model and business processes, including building a global shared services capability and reconfiguring our supply chain. these risks could lead to operational challenges, including increased competition for employees with the skills we require to achieve our business goals; higher employee turnover, including of employees with key capabilities; and challenges in developing the capabilities necessary to build and effectively execute a shared services function and transform our business processes. furthermore, we might be unable to manage appropriately changes in, or that affect, our workforce or satisfy the legal requirements associated with how we manage and compensate our employees. this includes our management of employees represented by labor unions or workers councils, who represent approximately 64% of our 71,000 employees outside the united states and approximately 28% of our 12,000 u.s. employees. strikes, work stoppages or other forms of labor unrest by our employees or those of our suppliers or distributors, or situations like the renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements that expired in february 2016 and that cover eight u.s. facilities, could cause disruptions to our supply chain, manufacturing or distribution processes. these risks could materially and adversely affect our reputation, ability to meet the needs of our customers, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. our retail customers are consolidating and we must leverage our value proposition in order to compete against retailer and other economy brands. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the european union, the united states and other major markets, continue to consolidate, form buying alliances or be acquired by new entrants in the food retail market, resulting in fewer, larger customers. large retail customers and customer alliances can delist our products or reduce the shelf space allotted to our products and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs or longer payment terms. retail customers might also adopt these tactics in their dealings with us in response to the significant growth in online retailing for consumer products, which is outpacing the growth of traditional retail channels. in addition, larger retail customers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. our products must provide higher quality or value to our consumers than the less expensive alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if consumers perceive little difference between the quality or value of our products and those of retailer or other economy brands. if consumers switch to purchasing or otherwise prefer the retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes, or we may need to shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases. if we do not effectively respond to retail consolidation, increasing retail power and competition from retailer and other economy brands, our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 15 table of contents we are subject to changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers. during 2017, our five largest customers accounted for 15.6% of our net revenues. there can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. the loss of or disruptions related to significant customers could result in a material reduction in sales or change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer. this could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers or operate our business and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may decide or be required to recall products or be subjected to product liability claims. we could decide, or laws or regulations could require us, to recall products due to suspected or confirmed deliberate or unintentional product contamination including contamination of ingredients we use in our products that third parties supply, spoilage or other adulteration, product mislabeling or product tampering. in addition, if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in this category. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations or those of our suppliers violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our or our suppliers products cause injury, illness or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment against us, a related regulatory enforcement action, a widespread product recall or attempts to manipulate us based on threats related to the safety of our products could materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability, consumer fraud or other claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, product inventory, financial condition and results of operations. we could be subject to legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. we are a large snack food company operating in highly regulated environments and constantly evolving legal, tax and regulatory frameworks around the world. consequently, we are subject to greater risk of litigation, legal or tax claims, or other regulatory enforcement actions. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate policies and procedures we have implemented to promote compliance with existing laws and regulations. moreover, a failure to maintain effective control environment processes, including in connection with the development of our global shared services capability, could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. litigation, legal or tax claims, or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or controls, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand and offer new and improved products that meet those changes. consumer preferences for food and snacking products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and interpret the tastes, dietary habits, packaging, sales channel and other preferences of consumers around the world and to offer products that appeal to these preferences. moreover, weak economic conditions, recession, equity market volatility or other factors, such as severe weather events, could affect consumer preferences and demand. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers or if we misjudge consumer demand for our products, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer. 16 table of contents we must distinguish between short-term fads and trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences or category trends will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those changing preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied and geographically diverse consumer base, we must offer an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products could decrease and our profitability could suffer. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health, environmental and social implications of certain food products and ingredients could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. for example, consumers have increasingly focused on well-being, including reducing sodium and added sugar consumption. developing more well-being products and contemporizing our brands by refining their ingredient and nutrition profiles are critical to our growth. in addition, consumer preferences differ by region, and we must monitor and adjust our use of ingredients to respond to these regional preferences. we might be unsuccessful in our efforts to effectively respond to changing consumer preferences and social expectations. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage strategic transactions. we regularly evaluate a variety of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, equity method investments and other strategic alliances that could further our strategic business objectives. we may not successfully identify, complete or manage the risks presented by these strategic transactions. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable transactions; negotiate favorable contractual terms; comply with applicable regulations and receive necessary consents, clearances and approvals (including regulatory and antitrust clearances and approvals); integrate or separate businesses; realize the full extent of the benefits, cost savings or synergies presented by strategic transactions; effectively implement control environment processes with employees joining us as a result of a transaction; minimize adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; achieve accurate estimates of fair value; minimize potential loss of customers or key employees; and minimize indemnities and potential disputes with buyers, sellers and strategic partners. in addition, execution or oversight of strategic transactions may result in the diversion of management attention from our existing business and may present financial, managerial and operational risks. with respect to acquisitions and joint ventures in particular, we are also exposed to potential risks based on our ability to conform standards, controls, policies and procedures, and business cultures; consolidate and streamline operations and infrastructures; identify and eliminate, as appropriate, redundant and underperforming operations and assets; manage inefficiencies associated with the integration of operations; and coordinate timely and ongoing compliance with antitrust and competition laws in the united states, the european union and other jurisdictions. joint ventures and similar strategic alliances pose additional risks, as we share ownership and in some cases management responsibilities with one or more other parties whose objectives for the alliance may diverge from ours over time, who may not have the same priorities, strategies or resources as we do, or whose interpretation of applicable policies may differ from our own. transactions or ventures into which we enter might not meet our financial and non-financial control and compliance expectations or yield the anticipated benefits. depending on the nature of the business ventures, including whether they operate globally, these ventures could also be subject to many of the same risks we are, including political, economic, regulatory and compliance risks, currency exchange rate fluctuations, and volatility of commodity and other input prices. either partner might fail to recognize an alliance relationship that could expose the business to higher risk or make the venture not as productive as expected. furthermore, we may not be able to complete, on terms favorable to us, desired or proposed divestitures of businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or our growth or profitability targets. our divestiture activities, or related activities such as reorganizations, restructuring programs and transformation initiatives, may require us to recognize impairment charges or to take action to reduce costs that remain after we complete a divestiture. gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may also affect our profitability. any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents we could fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. the accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. these limitations include, among others, the possibility of human error, inadequacy or circumvention of controls and fraud. if we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or design and implement controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of our financial statements, including in connection with controls executed for us by third parties, we might fail to timely detect any misappropriation of corporate assets or inappropriate allocation or use of funds and could be unable to file accurate financial reports on a timely basis. as a result, our reputation, results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected. weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid global capital markets and volatile global economic conditions could limit our access to the global capital markets, reduce our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs. we access the long-term and short-term global capital markets to obtain financing. our financial performance, our short-and long-term debt credit ratings, interest rates, the stability of financial institutions with which we partner, the liquidity of the overall global capital markets and the state of the global economy, including the food industry, could affect our access to, and the availability or cost of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions and our ability to pay dividends in the future. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the global capital markets on terms we find acceptable. we regularly access the commercial paper markets in the united states and europe for ongoing funding requirements. a downgrade in our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect our ability to issue commercial paper. disruptions in the global commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the global credit markets also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. limitations on our ability to access the global capital markets, a reduction in our liquidity or an increase in our borrowing costs could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. volatility in the equity markets, interest rates, our participation in multiemployer pension plans and other factors could increase our costs relating to our employees pensions. we sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans for our employees throughout the world and also contribute toward our employees pensions under defined benefit plans that we do not sponsor. at the end of 2017, the projected benefit obligation of the defined benefit pension plans we sponsor was $12.6 billion and plan assets were $11.0 billion. for defined benefit pension plans that we maintain, the difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. our largest funded defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of investments, including equities and corporate and government debt. among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which the plans operate and the market value of plan assets can affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost and increase our future funding requirements. legislative and other governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans benefits obligation. volatility in the global capital markets may increase the risk that we will be required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net periodic pension cost. we also participate in multiemployer pension plans. our exposure under those plans may extend beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our own employees. our contributions to a multiemployer plan may increase beyond our bargaining obligations depending on the financial condition of the multiemployer plan and the financial viability of other employers in the plan. we may be required to participate in funding the unfunded obligations of the plan allocable to a withdrawing employer, and our costs might increase as a result. further, if we partially or completely withdraw from a multiemployer pension plan, we may be required to pay a partial or complete withdrawal liability. this withdrawal liability will generally increase if there is also a mass withdrawal of other participating employers or if the plan terminates. (see note 9, benefit plans , to the consolidated financial statements for more information on our multiemployer pension plans.) 18 table of contents a significant increase in our pension benefit obligations or funding requirements could curtail our ability to invest in the business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our failure to protect our valuable intellectual property rights could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable part of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by taking advantage of a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in various countries, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of third party claims of intellectual property infringement relating to our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert management and other key personnel attention from our business operations. third party claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to pay monetary damages or enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products, product sales, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. as we operate globally, we are primarily exposed to currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate market risks. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. we principally utilize derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. for additional information on our derivative activity and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge our currency exchange, commodity price and interest rate exposures, see note 8, financial instruments . many of our non-u.s. subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in currency exchange rates create volatility in our reported results as we translate the balance sheets, operating results and cash flows of these subsidiaries into the u.s. dollar for consolidated reporting purposes. the translation of non-u.s. dollar denominated balance sheets and statements of earnings of our subsidiaries into the u.s. dollar for consolidated reporting generally results in a cumulative translation adjustment to other comprehensive income within equity. a stronger u.s. dollar relative to other functional currencies adversely affects our consolidated earnings and net assets while a weaker u.s. dollar benefits our consolidated earnings and net assets. while we hedge significant forecasted currency exchange transactions as well as certain net assets of non-u.s. operations and other currency impacts, we cannot fully predict or eliminate volatility arising from changes in currency exchange rates on our consolidated financial results. see consolidated results of operations and results of operations by reportable segment under discussion and analysis of historical results for currency exchange effects on our financial results. for additional information on the impact of currency policies, recent currency devaluations, the deconsolidation of our venezuelan operation and the historical remeasurement of our venezuelan net monetary assets on our financial condition and results of operations, also see note 1, summary of significant accounting policies currency translation and highly inflationary accounting . we also continually monitor the market for commodities that we use in our products. input costs may fluctuate widely due to international demand, weather conditions, government policy and regulation and unforeseen conditions. to manage input cost volatility, we enter into forward purchase agreements and other derivative financial instruments. we also pursue productivity and cost saving measures and take pricing actions when necessary to mitigate the impact of higher input costs on earnings. we regularly evaluate our variable and fixed-rate debt as well as current and expected interest rates in the markets in which we raise capital. our primary exposures include movements in u.s. treasury rates, corporate credit spreads, london interbank offered rates ( libor ), euro interbank offered rate ( euribor ) and commercial paper rates. we periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt based on current and projected market conditions. our weighted-average interest rate on our total debt was 2.1% as of december 31, 2017, down from 2.2% as of december 31, 2016. there were no significant changes in the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge our exposures between december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2017. see note 8, financial instruments , for more information on 2017 and 2018 derivative activity. value at risk: we use a value at risk ( var ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments; and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our currency and commodity price-sensitive derivative financial instruments. the var analysis was done separately for our currency exchange, fixed income and commodity risk portfolios as of each quarter end during the periods presented below. the instruments included in the var computation were currency exchange forwards and options for currency exchange risk, debt and swaps for interest rate risk, and commodity forwards, futures and options for commodity risk. excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in non-u.s. subsidiaries, which the above-mentioned instruments are intended to hedge. 59 table of contents the var model assumes normal market conditions, a 95% confidence interval and a one-day holding period. a parametric delta-gamma approximation technique was used to determine the expected return distribution in interest rates, currencies and commodity prices for the purpose of calculating the fixed income, currency exchange and commodity var, respectively. the parameters used for estimating the expected return distributions were determined by observing interest rate, currency exchange, and commodity price movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of var amounts at december 31, 2017 and 2016, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average var amounts during each year. the values of currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity and were valued accordingly in the var computation. as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016, the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our currency and commodity instruments, as calculated in the var model, were: pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/17 average high low at 12/31/17 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 31 $ 45 $ 55 $ 31 foreign currency rates $ 15 $ 16 $ 22 $ 11 commodity prices 14 17 24 14 pre-tax earnings impact fair value impact at 12/31/16 average high low at 12/31/16 average high low (in millions) instruments sensitive to: interest rates $ 62 $ 62 $ 91 $ 45 foreign currency rates $ 10 $ 18 $ 26 $ 10 commodity prices 16 12 16 10 this var computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum expected daily loss, under the specified confidence interval and assuming normal market conditions, from adverse movements in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings we will incur, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. we cannot predict actual future movements in market rates and do not present these var results to be indicative of future movements in market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results. 60 table of contents