quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk reference is made to information in southern company's "management's discussion and analysis - market price risk" in item 7 herein and to notes 1 and 8 to southern company's financial statements under the heading "financial instruments" contained herein on pages ii-17, ii-35 and ii-47, respectively. reference is also made to "management's discussion and analysis - exposure to market risks" in item 7 of alabama power, georgia power, gulf power, savannah electric and southern power contained herein at pages ii-64, ii-104, ii-144, ii-220, and ii-257, respectively. reference is also made to "management's discussion and analysis - market price risk" in item 7 of mississippi power contained herein at page ii-182. further reference is made to note 1 to the financial statements in item 8 herein for the operating companies and southern power, also note 7 to the financial statements of alabama power and southern power and note 9 to the financial statements of georgia power under the headings "financial instruments." ii-3quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk reference is made to information in each of the registrants' "management's discussion and analysis - financial condition and liquidity - market price risk" in item 7 herein and to notes 1 and 6 to each of the registrants' financial statements in item 8 herein under the heading "financial instruments." ii-3risk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. risks related to the energy industry southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the retail operating companies and southern power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including customer rates, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices and the operation of fossil-fuel, hydroelectric and nuclear generating facilities. for example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the retail operating companies and by southern power must be approved by the ferc. in addition, the respective state pscs must approve the retail operating companies rates for retail customers. while the retail rates approved by the respective state pscs are designed to provide for recovery of costs and a return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that a state psc will not deem certain costs to be imprudently incurred and not subject to recovery. until february 8, 2006, southern company was subject to regulation by the sec under the holding company act. in july 2005, the u.s. congress passed the energy act of 2005 which, among other things, repealed the holding company act effective february 8, 2006. under the energy act of 2005, the ferc was provided with new oversight responsibilities for the electric utility industry. southern company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that their respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs. general risks related to operation of southern company utility subsidiaries the regional power market in which southern company and its utility subsidiaries compete may have changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these assets and related revenues and expenses. the retail operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. transmission revenues are not separated from generation and distribution revenues in their approved retail rates. since 1999, when the ferc issued final rules on rtos, there have been a number of proceedings at ferc designed to encourage further voluntary formation of rtos or to mandate their formation. under this new transmission regulatory structure, the retail operating companies could transfer functional control (but not ownership) of their transmission facilities to an independent third party. while there are no active proceedings at ferc that would require southern company to participate in a rto, current ferc efforts that may potentially change the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission include rules related to the standardization of generation interconnection, as well as an inquiry into, among other things, market power by vertically integrated utilities. the financial condition, net income and cash flows of southern company and its utility subsidiaries i-16 table of contents could be adversely affected by future changes in the federal regulatory or operational structure of transmission. certain events in the energy markets that are beyond the control of southern company and its subsidiaries have increased the level of public and regulatory scrutiny in the energy industry and in the capital markets. the reaction to these events may result in new laws or regulations related to the business operations or the accounting treatment of the existing operations of southern company and its subsidiaries which could have a negative impact on the net income or access to capital of southern company and its subsidiaries. as a result of the energy crisis in california during the summer of 2001, the enron corporation bankruptcy, investigations by governmental authorities into energy trading activities and the august 2003 power outage in the northeast, companies in regulated and unregulated electric utility businesses have been under an increased amount of public and regulatory scrutiny with respect to, among other things, accounting practices, financial disclosures and relationships with independent auditors. this increased scrutiny has led to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting southern company and its subsidiaries, including, among others, enhanced internal control and auditor independence requirements, financial statement certification requirements, more frequent sec reviews of financial statements and accelerated and additional sec filing requirements. new accounting and disclosure requirements have changed the way southern company and its subsidiaries are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. southern company expects continued regulatory focus on accounting and financial reporting issues. future disruptions in the industry such as those described above and any additional resulting regulations may have a negative impact on the net income or access to capital of southern company and its subsidiaries. deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs which could negatively impact the net income of southern company and the retail operating companies and the value of their respective assets. increased competition, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on southern company and its retail operating companies. increased competition could result in increased pressure to lower the cost of electricity. any adoption in the territories served by the retail operating companies of retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy service could have a significant adverse financial impact on southern company and the retail operating companies due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins, an inability to recover reasonable costs or increased costs of capital. southern company and the retail operating companies cannot predict if or when they may be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can southern company and the retail operating companies predict the impact of these changes. additionally, the electric utility industry has experienced a substantial increase in competition at the wholesale level. as a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, ipps, wholesale power marketers and brokers, and due to the trading of energy futures contracts on various commodities exchanges. in addition, ferc rules on transmission service are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on a nationwide basis, by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. potential changes to the criteria used by the ferc for approval of market-based contracts may negatively impact the retail operating companies and southern power ability to charge market-based rates. each of the retail operating companies and southern power have authorization from the ferc to sell power to nonaffiliates at market-based prices. the retail operating companies and southern power also have ferc authority to make short-term opportunity sales at market rates. specific ferc approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based contract with an affiliate. in december 2004, the ferc initiated a proceeding to assess southern company generation dominance within its retail service territory. the ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is not an issue in that proceeding. any new market-based rate transactions in its retail service territory entered into after february 27, 2005 are subject to refund to the level of the default cost-based rates, pending the outcome of the proceeding. in the event i-17 table of contents that ferc default mitigation measures for entities that are found to have market power are ultimately applied, the retail operating companies and southern power may be required to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the southern company retail service territory, which may be lower than market-based rates. in addition, in may 2005 the ferc started an investigation to determine whether southern company satisfies the other three parts of ferc market-based rate analysis: transmission market power, barriers to entry and affiliate abuse or reciprocal dealing. any and all new market-based rate transactions involving any southern company subsidiary will be subject to refund to the extent the ferc orders lower rates as a result of this new investigation, with the refund period beginning july 19, 2005. in may 2005, the ferc also initiated a proceeding to examine the provisions of the iic, whether any parties to the iic have violated ferc standards of conduct applicable to utility companies that are transmission providers, and whether southern company code of conduct defining southern power as a system company rather than a marketing affiliate is just and reasonable. effective july 19, 2005, revenues from transactions under the iic involving any southern company subsidiaries will be subject to refund to the extent ferc orders any changes to the iic. risks related to environmental regulation southern company and the retail operating companies costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could harm the net income and cash flows of southern company, the retail operating companies or southern power. southern company and the retail operating companies are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water discharges and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to adequately protect the environment. compliance with these legal requirements requires southern company and the retail operating companies to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of their respective facilities. these expenditures are significant and southern company and the retail operating companies expect that they will increase in the future. through 2005, southern company had spent approximately $1.6 billion in reducing sulfur dioxide (so 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (no x ) emissions and in monitoring emissions pursuant to the clean air act. additional controls have been announced and are currently being installed at several plants to further reduce so 2 and no x emissions, to maintain compliance with existing regulations and to meet new requirements. approximately $1.3 billion of these expenditures related to reducing no x emissions pursuant to state and federal requirements in connection with the epa one-hour ozone standard and the 1998 regional no x reduction rules. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, has increased generally throughout the united states. in particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. if southern company, the retail operating companies or southern power fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond their control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the epa has filed civil actions against alabama power, georgia power and savannah electric alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. georgia power is a party to a civil suit regarding alleged violations of the clean air act at four units of plant wansley, and southern company is a party to a suit alleging its emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming. an adverse outcome in any one of these cases could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require the payment of substantial penalties. this could affect future results of operations, cash flows, and possibly financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be i-18 table of contents adopted or become applicable to southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on the facilities of the retail operating companies or southern power or increased compliance costs which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce the net income of southern company, the retail operating companies or southern power. the cost impact of such legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. risks related to southern company and its business southern company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to southern company. southern company is a holding company and, as such, southern company has no operations of its own. southern company ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to southern company. prior to funding southern company, southern company subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if its subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities. southern company financial performance depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries electric generating, transmission and distribution facilities. operating these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks; fuel or material supply interruptions; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from power produced by the electric generating facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected retail operating company or southern power and of southern company. in addition, southern company non-utility businesses depend on the successful operation of their respective facilities. for example, the net income and cash flows of southernlinc wireless and southern company could be adversely impacted in the event of a major failure of its telecommunications facilities. the revenues of southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, or the failure to renew the ppas, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected retail operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas having initial terms of five to 15 years. in addition, the retail operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. even though southern power and the retail operating companies have a rigorous credit evaluation, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected retail operating company or southern power and of southern company. although these credit evaluations take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than the credit evaluation predicts. neither southern power nor the retail operating companies can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. if a ppa is not renewed, a replacement ppa cannot be assured. i-19 table of contents southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power may incur additional costs or delays in power plant construction and may not be able to recover their investment. the facilities of southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power require ongoing capital expenditures. certain of the retail operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities. southern company intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities and expanding existing facilities. the completion of these facilities without delays or cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials and labor; work stoppages; permits, approvals and other regulatory matters; adverse weather conditions; unforeseen engineering problems; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect its facilities to transmission grids; unanticipated cost increases; and attention to other projects. if a retail operating company or southern power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a retail operating company or southern power and southern company. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a retail operating company or southern power and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs and reduced net income. once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the retail operating companies existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements or to provide reliable operations. changes in technology may make southern company electric generating facilities owned by the retail operating companies and southern power less competitive. a key element of the business model of southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power is that generating power at central power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at relatively low cost. there are other technologies that produce power, most notably fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and solar cells. it is possible that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central power station electric production. if this were to happen and if these technologies achieved economies of scale, the market share of southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which retail electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the retail operating companies or southern power. operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of southern company nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power, and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for operation of, four nuclear units. these six units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 megawatts, or 9.1% of southern company generation capacity as of december 31, 2005. these nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities and the threat of a possible terrorist attack. alabama power and georgia power i-20 table of contents maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. recent nrc orders related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, although alabama power, georgia power and southern company have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at its plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. in addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. the generation and energy marketing operations of southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce southern company s, the retail operating companies and southern power revenues and increase costs. the generation and energy marketing operations of southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power receive from the sale of power. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate over relatively short periods of time. southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power attempt to mitigate risks associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the retail operating company fuel cost recovery clauses or through ppas. among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, fuel oil and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the retail operating companies, southern power and southern company, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for us, our competitors or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the service territory and in general, including the impact of economic conditions on industrial and commercial demand for electricity; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events; and federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the retail operating companies or southern power and southern company. for the retail operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the retail operating companies or southern power and southern company. as a result of increasing fuel costs, the retail operating companies have accrued significant underrecovered fuel cost balances. in addition, alabama power, gulf power and mississippi power have significant deficit balances in their storm cost recovery reserves as a result of hurricanes ivan, dennis and katrina. while the retail operating companies are generally authorized under state legislation administered by the i-21 table of contents respective pscs to recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through special rate provisions, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected retail operating companies and southern company. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the retail operating companies and southern power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage their commodity and financial market risks and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. southern company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, or if a counterparty fails to perform. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. the retail operating companies and southern power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. the retail operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas and fuel oil, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, weather, labor relations, force majuere events or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the retail operating companies and southern power to operate their respective facilities, and thus, reduce the net income of the affected retail operating company or southern power and southern company. the retail operating companies are dependent on coal for much of their electric generating capacity. each retail operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the retail operating companies. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the retail operating companies. in addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the retail operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the retail operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the retail operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through rates. in addition, southern power in particular, and the retail operating companies to a lesser extent, are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed. for example, in connection with the 2005 hurricanes in the gulf of mexico, production and distribution of natural gas was limited for a period of time, resulting in shortages and significant increases in the price of natural gas. in addition, world market conditions for fuels, including the policies of the organization of petroleum exporting companies, can impact the price and availability of natural gas. demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. through the retail operating companies and southern power, southern company is currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed southern company available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the retail operating companies or southern power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation capabilities. because regulators may not permit the retail operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the retail operating companies may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the retail operating companies recovery in customers rates. under southern power long-term fixed price ppas, southern i-22 table of contents power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected retail operating company or southern power and southern company. the operating results of southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash and borrowing ability of southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power. mirant and the official committee of unsecured creditors of mirant corporation have filed a claim against southern company seeking substantial monetary damages in connection with transfers made by mirant to southern company prior to the mirant spin-off. in july 2003, mirant filed for voluntary reorganization under chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code, and in january 2006, completed its plan of reorganization. in 2005, mirant, as debtor in possession, and the official committee of unsecured creditors of mirant corporation filed a complaint against southern company in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the northern district of texas, which was amended in july 2005 and february 2006. the complaint alleges that southern company caused mirant to engage in certain fraudulent transfers and to pay illegal dividends to southern company in 1999 and 2000 with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors, or, alternatively, when southern company knew or should have known that mirant was allegedly insolvent, undercapitalized or unable to pay its debts. the complaint seeks monetary damages in excess of $2 billion plus interest, punitive damages, attorneys fees and costs. in addition, mirant has objected to southern company claims against mirant in the bankruptcy court and seeks equitable subordination of southern company claims to the claims of all other creditors. while southern company believes there is no meritorious basis for mirant claims and intends to vigorously defend itself in the action, the ultimate outcome of mirant claims cannot be determined at this time. irs challenges to southern company income tax deductions taken in connection with four international leveraged lease transactions could result in the payment of substantial additional interest and penalties and could materially impact southern company cash flow and net income. southern company participates in four international leveraged lease transactions and receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on related debt. in connection with its audit of southern company tax returns for 1996 through 2001, the irs proposed to disallow southern company tax losses related to one international leveraged lease (a lease-in-lease-out, or lilo) transaction. in february 2005, southern company reached a negotiated settlement with the irs relating to this matter, which is subject to final approval. in addition, the irs has challenged southern company deductions related to the three other international leases (sale-in-lease-out, or silo) transactions in connection with its audit of southern company 2000 and 2001 tax returns. if the irs is ultimately successful in disallowing the tax deductions related to these three transactions, beginning with the 2000 tax year, southern company could be subject to additional interest charges of up to $34 million, and the irs has proposed a penalty of approximately $16 million. although the payment of the tax liability, exclusive of this interest, would not affect southern company results of operations under current accounting standards, it could have a material impact on cash flow. furthermore, the financial accounting standards board has recently proposed changes to the accounting for both leveraged leases and uncertain tax positions that are expected to become effective in 2006. for the lilo transaction, southern i-23 table of contents company estimates the cumulative effect upon adoption of the accounting change would reduce southern company net income by approximately $16 million. the impact of these proposed changes related to the silo transactions would be dependent on the outcome of ongoing negotiations with the irs, but could be significant, and potentially material, to southern company net income. risks related to market and economic volatility the business of southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power is dependent on their ability to successfully access capital markets. the inability of southern company, any retail operating company or southern power to access capital may limit its ability to execute its business plan or pursue improvements and make acquisitions that southern company, the retail operating companies or southern power may otherwise rely on for future growth. southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if southern company, any retail operating company or southern power is not able to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan or pursue improvements and make acquisitions that southern company, the retail operating companies or southern power may otherwise rely on for future growth will be limited. each of southern company, each retail operating company and southern power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain market disruptions or a downgrade of the credit rating of southern company, any retail operating company or southern power may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; capital market conditions generally; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on southern company facilities or unrelated energy companies; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility industry. southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, including their ability to obtain insurance, the financial stability of their respective customers and their ability to raise capital. the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the continuing threat of terrorism and the related military action by the united states have affected the nation economy and financial markets. the insurance industry has also been disrupted by these events. the availability of insurance covering risks southern company, the retail operating companies, southern power and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms. any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could constrain the capital available to southern company s, the retail operating companies and southern power industry and could reduce access to funding for the respective operations of southern company, the retail operating companies and southern power, as well as the financial stability of their respective customers and counterparties. these factors could adversely affect southern company subsidiaries ability to achieve energy sales growth, thereby decreasing southern company level of future net income. certain of the retail operating companies have substantial investments in the gulf coast region which can be subject to major storm activity. the ability of the retail operating companies to recover costs and replenish reserves in the event of a major storm, other natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event generally will require regulatory action. each retail operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from major storms to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generating facilities and other property. in september 2004, hurricane ivan hit the gulf coast of florida and alabama, causing significant damage to the service areas of alabama power and gulf power. in july and august i-24 table of contents 2005, hurricanes dennis and katrina, respectively, hit the gulf coast of the united states and caused significant damage in the service areas of gulf power, alabama power and mississippi power. in each case, costs to the respective retail operating companies exceeded their respective storm cost reserves and insurance coverage. in the event a retail operating company experiences a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of the respective state psc. while the retail operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the state psc or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a retail operating company result of operations and/or cash flows. increases in the price of oil may limit tax credits available to southern company under section 29 of the internal revenue code in connection synthetic fuel investments and could result in impairments to southern company investments in synthetic fuel projects. southern company has investments in two entities that produce synthetic fuel and receive tax credits under section 29 of the internal revenue code. in accordance with section 29 of the internal revenue code, these tax credits are subject to limitation as the annual average price of oil (as determined by the doe) increases over a specified, inflation-adjusted dollar amount published in the spring of the subsequent year. southern company, along with its partners in these investments, will continue to monitor oil prices. any indicated potential limitation on these credits could affect either the timing or the amount of the credit recognition and could require an impairment analysis of these investments by southern company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis financial condition and liquidity market price risk of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant financial statements under financial instruments in item 8 herein. see also note 6 to the financial statements of southern company and each retail operating company and note 5 to the financial statements of southern power under financial instruments in item 8 herein. ii-3 table of contentsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from i-12 table of contents those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. risks related to the energy industry southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including customer rates, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices and the operation of fossil-fuel, hydroelectric and nuclear generating facilities. for example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by southern power must be approved by the ferc. in addition, the respective state pscs must approve the traditional operating companies rates for retail customers. while the retail rates approved by the respective state pscs are designed to provide for recovery of costs and a return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that a state psc will not deem certain costs to be imprudently incurred and not subject to recovery. southern company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that their respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs. general risks related to operation of southern company utility subsidiaries the regional power market in which southern company and its utility subsidiaries compete may have changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these assets and related revenues and expenses. the traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. transmission revenues are not separated from generation and distribution revenues in their approved retail rates. since 1999, when the ferc issued final rules on rtos, there have been a number of proceedings at ferc designed to encourage further voluntary formation of rtos or to mandate their formation. under this new transmission regulatory structure, the traditional operating companies could transfer functional control (but not ownership) of their transmission facilities to an independent third party. while there are no active proceedings at ferc that would require southern company to participate in a rto, current ferc efforts that may potentially change the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission include rules related to the standardization of generation interconnection, as well as an inquiry into, among other things, market power by vertically integrated utilities. the financial condition, net income and cash flows of southern company and its utility subsidiaries could be adversely affected by future changes in the federal regulatory or operational structure of transmission. certain events in the energy markets that are beyond the control of southern company and its subsidiaries have increased the level of public and regulatory scrutiny in the energy industry and in the capital markets. the reaction to these events may result in new laws or regulations related to the business operations or the accounting treatment of the existing operations of southern company and its subsidiaries which could have a negative impact on the net income or access to capital of southern company and its subsidiaries. as a result of the energy crisis in california during the summer of 2001, the enron corporation bankruptcy, investigations by governmental authorities into energy trading activities and the august 2003 power outage in the northeast, companies in regulated and unregulated electric utility businesses have been under an increased amount of public and regulatory scrutiny with respect to, among other things, accounting practices, financial disclosures and relationships with independent auditors. this increased scrutiny has led to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting southern company and its subsidiaries, including, among others, enhanced internal control and auditor independence requirements, financial statement certification requirements, more frequent sec reviews of financial statements and accelerated and additional sec filing requirements. new accounting and disclosure requirements have changed the way southern company and its subsidiaries are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. southern company expects continued regulatory focus on accounting and financial reporting issues. future i-13 table of contents disruptions in the industry such as those described above and any additional resulting regulations may have a negative impact on the net income or access to capital of southern company and its subsidiaries. deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs which could negatively impact the net income of southern company and the traditional operating companies and the value of their respective assets. increased competition, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on southern company and its traditional operating companies. increased competition could result in increased pressure to lower the cost of electricity. any adoption in the territories served by the traditional operating companies of retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy service could have a significant adverse financial impact on southern company and the traditional operating companies due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins, an inability to recover reasonable costs or increased costs of capital. southern company and the traditional operating companies cannot predict if or when they may be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can southern company and the traditional operating companies predict the impact of these changes. additionally, the electric utility industry has experienced a substantial increase in competition at the wholesale level. as a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, ipps, wholesale power marketers and brokers and due to the trading of energy futures contracts on various commodities exchanges. in addition, ferc rules on transmission service are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on a nationwide basis by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. potential changes to the criteria used by the ferc for approval of market-based contracts may negatively impact the traditional operating companies and southern power ability to charge market-based rates. each of the traditional operating companies and southern power have authorization from the ferc to sell power to nonaffiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices. specific ferc approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based sale to an affiliate. in december 2004, the ferc initiated a proceeding to assess southern company generation dominance within its retail service territory. the ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is not an issue in that proceeding. any new market-based rate sales by any subsidiary of southern company in southern company retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period beginning february 27, 2005 could be subject to refund to the level of the default cost-based rates, pending the outcome of the proceeding. such sales through may 27, 2006, the end of the refund period were approximately $19.7 million for the southern company system. in the event that ferc default mitigation measures for entities that are found to have market power are ultimately applied, the traditional operating companies and southern power may be required to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the southern company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates. in addition, in may 2005 the ferc started an investigation to determine whether southern company satisfies the other three parts of ferc market-based rate analysis: transmission market power, barriers to entry and affiliate abuse or reciprocal dealing. the ferc established a new 15-month refund period related to this expanded investigation. any new market-based rate sales involving any southern company subsidiary could be subject to refund to the extent the ferc orders lower rates as a result of this new investigation. such sales through october 19, 2006, the end of the refund period, were approximately $55.4 million for the southern company system, of which $15.5 million relates to sales inside the retail service territory discussed above. risks related to environmental regulation southern company and the traditional operating companies costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively impact the net income and cash flows of southern company, the traditional operating companies or southern power. southern company and the traditional operating companies are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water discharges and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to adequately protect the environment. compliance with these legal requirements requires southern company and the traditional operating companies to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of their respective facilities. these expenditures are significant and southern company and the traditional operating companies expect that they will increase in the future. through 2006, southern company had invested approximately $3.1 billion in capital projects i-14 table of contents to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $661 million, $423 million and $300 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. southern company expects that capital expenditures to assure compliance with existing and new regulations will be an additional $1.66 billion, $1.65 billion and $1.27 billion for 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. because southern company compliance strategy is impacted by changes to existing environmental laws and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and southern company fuel mix, the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards, has increased generally throughout the united states. in particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. if southern company, the traditional operating companies or southern power fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond their control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the epa has filed civil actions against alabama power and georgia power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. southern company is a party to suits alleging its emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming. an adverse outcome in any one of these cases could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require the payment of substantial penalties. this could affect future results of operations, cash flows, and possibly financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to global climate change, air quality or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on the facilities of the traditional operating companies or southern power or increased compliance costs which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce the net income of southern company, the traditional operating companies or southern power. the cost impact of such legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. risks related to southern company and its business southern company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to southern company. southern company is a holding company and, as such, southern company has no operations of its own. substantially all of southern company consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. southern company ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to southern company. prior to funding southern company, southern company subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. southern company subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide southern company with funds for its payment obligations. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if its subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities. southern company financial performance depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries electric generating, transmission and distribution facilities. operating these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks; fuel or material supply interruptions; compliance with mandatory reliability standards if adopted; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as an avian influenza or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from power produced by the electric generating facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. the revenues of southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power depend in i-15 table of contents part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, or the failure to renew the ppas, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas having initial terms of five to 15 years. in addition, the traditional operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. even though southern power and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit evaluation, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. although these credit evaluations take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than the credit evaluation predicts. neither southern power nor the traditional operating companies can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. if a ppa is not renewed, a replacement ppa cannot be assured. southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or environmental facilities and may not be able to recover their investment. the facilities of southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power require ongoing capital expenditures. certain of the traditional operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. southern company intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, expanding existing facilities and adding environmental control equipment. the completion of these types of projects without delays or cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials and labor; work stoppages; permits, approvals and other regulatory matters; adverse weather conditions; unforeseen engineering problems; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect its facilities to transmission grids; unanticipated cost increases; and attention to other projects. tightening labor markets in the southeast and increasing costs of materials have resulted in increasing cost estimates for southern company subsidiaries construction projects. if a traditional operating company or southern power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or southern power and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs and reduced net income. once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional operating companies existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements or to provide reliable operations. changes in technology may make southern company electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power less competitive. a key element of the business model of southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power is that generating power at central power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at relatively low cost. there are other technologies that produce power, most notably fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and solar cells. it is possible that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central power station electric production. if this were to happen and if these technologies achieved economies of scale, the market share of southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which retail electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional operating companies or southern power. operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism and financial risks that could result in fines or the i-16 table of contents closure of southern company nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power, and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for operation of, four nuclear units. these six units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 megawatts, or 9.1%, of southern company generation capacity as of december 31, 2006. these nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities and the threat of a possible terrorist attack. alabama power and georgia power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, although alabama power, georgia power and southern company have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at their plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. in addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. the generation and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce southern company s, the traditional operating companies and southern power revenues and increase costs. the generation and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power receive from the sale of power. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate over relatively short periods of time. southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power attempt to mitigate risks associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the traditional operating companies fuel cost recovery clauses or through ppas. among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the service territory and in general, including the impact of economic conditions on industrial and commercial demand for electricity; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events; and federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. for the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. as a result of increasing fuel costs, the traditional operating companies have accrued significant i-17 table of contents underrecovered fuel cost balances. in addition, gulf power and mississippi power have significant deficit balances in their storm cost recovery reserves as a result of hurricanes ivan, dennis and katrina. the traditional operating companies may experience similar deficit balances following future storms. while the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through special rate provisions administered by the respective pscs, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating companies and southern company. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage their commodity and financial market risks and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. southern company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. the traditional operating companies and southern power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium and fuel oil, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majuere events or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate their respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for much of their electric generating capacity. each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional operating companies. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional operating companies. in addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through rates. in addition, southern power in particular, and the traditional operating companies to a lesser extent, are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed. for example, in connection with the 2005 hurricanes in the gulf of mexico, production and distribution of natural gas was limited for a period of time, resulting in shortages and significant increases in the price of natural gas. in addition, world market conditions for fuels, including the policies of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, can impact the price and availability of natural gas. demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. through the traditional operating companies and southern power, southern company is currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed southern company available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or southern power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation capabilities. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies recovery in customers rates. under southern power long-term fixed price ppas, southern power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the i-18 table of contents affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash and borrowing ability of southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power. mirant and the official committee of unsecured creditors of mirant corporation have filed a claim against southern company seeking substantial monetary damages in connection with transfers made by mirant to southern company prior to the mirant spin-off. in july 2003, mirant filed for voluntary reorganization under chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code. in january 2006, mirant plan of reorganization became effective, and mirant emerged from bankruptcy. in 2005, mirant, as debtor in possession, and the official committee of unsecured creditors of mirant corporation filed a complaint against southern company in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the northern district of texas, which was amended in july 2005, february 2006 and may 2006. the third amended complaint (the complaint) alleges that southern company caused mirant to engage in certain fraudulent transfers and to pay illegal dividends to southern company prior to the spin-off. the complaint also seeks to recharacterize certain advances from southern company to mirant for investments in energy facilities from debt to equity. the complaint further alleges that southern company is liable to mirant creditors for the full amount of mirant liability and that southern company breached its fiduciary duties to mirant and its creditors, caused mirant to breach fiduciary duties to its creditors, and aided and abetted breaches of fiduciary duties by mirant directors and officers. the complaint also seeks recoveries under theories of restitution, unjust enrichment, and alter ego. the complaint seeks monetary damages in excess of $2 billion plus interest, punitive damages, attorneys fees, and costs. finally, the complaint includes an objection to southern company pending claims against mirant in the bankruptcy court (which relate to reimbursement under the separation agreements of payments such as income taxes, interest, legal fees, and other guarantees described in note 7 to the financial statements of southern company in item 8 herein) and seeks equitable subordination of southern company claims to the claims of all other creditors. southern company served an answer to the complaint in june 2006. on january 10, 2006, the u.s. district court for the northern district of texas granted southern company motion to withdraw this action from the bankruptcy court and, on february 15, 2006, granted southern company motion to transfer the case to the u.s. district court for the northern district of georgia. on may 19, 2006, southern company filed a motion for summary judgment seeking entry of judgment against the plaintiff as to all counts of the complaint. on december 11, 2006, the u.s. district court for the northern district of georgia granted in part and denied in part the motion. as a result, certain breach of fiduciary duty claims are barred; all other claims in the complaint may proceed. southern company believes there is no meritorious basis for the claims in the complaint and is vigorously defending itself in this action. however, the final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined. irs challenges to southern company income tax deductions taken in connection with four international leveraged lease transactions could result in the payment of substantial additional interest and penalties and could materially impact southern company cash flow and net income. southern company participates in four international leveraged lease transactions and receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on related debt. in connection with its audit of southern company tax returns for 1996 through 2001, the irs proposed to disallow southern company tax losses related to one international leveraged lease (a lease-in-lease-out, or lilo) transaction. in february 2005, southern company reached a negotiated settlement with the irs relating to this matter, which is now final. in connection with its audit of 2000 and 2001, the irs also challenged southern company deductions related to three other international lease (sale-in-lease-out, or silo) transactions. in the third quarter 2006, southern company paid the full amount of the disputed tax and the applicable interest on the silo issue for tax years 2000-2001 and filed a claim for refund which has been denied by the irs. the disputed tax amount is $79 million and the related interest is approximately $24 million for these tax years. this payment, and the subsequent irs disallowance of the refund claim, closed the issue with i-19 table of contents the irs and southern company plans to proceed with litigation. the irs has also raised the silo issues for tax years 2002 and 2003. the estimated amount of disputed tax and interest for these years is approximately $83 million and $15 million, respectively. the tax and interest for these tax years was paid to the irs in the fourth quarter 2006. southern company has accounted for both payments in 2006 as deposits, as management believes no additional tax or interest liabilities have been incurred. although the payment of the tax liability did not affect southern company results of operations under accounting standards in effect through december 31, 2006, it did impact cash flow. for tax years 2000 through 2006, southern company has claimed $284 million in tax benefits related to these silo transactions challenged by the irs. southern company believes these transactions are valid leases for u.s. tax purposes and thus the related deductions are allowable. southern company will continue to defend this position through administrative appeals or litigation. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot now be determined. in july 2006, the fasb released new interpretations for the accounting for both leveraged leases and uncertain tax positions that were adopted january 1, 2007. for the lilo transaction settled with the irs in february 2005, the leveraged leases accounting interpretation requires that southern company recognize a cumulative effect reduction to beginning 2007 retained earnings of approximately $17 million at adoption and change the timing of income recognized under the lease. for the silo transactions which are the subject of pending litigation, southern company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the new interpretations but estimates that the reduction to retained earnings in 2007 could be approximately $115 million to $135 million. the impact on southern company net income of these accounting interpretations would also be dependent on the outcome of the pending litigation or changes in assumptions related to uncertain tax positions but could be significant and potentially material. risks related to market and economic volatility the business of southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power is dependent on their ability to successfully access capital markets. the inability of southern company, any traditional operating company or southern power to access capital may limit its ability to execute its business plan or pursue improvements and make acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies or southern power may otherwise rely on for future growth. southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if southern company, any traditional operating company or southern power is not able to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan or pursue improvements and make acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies or southern power may otherwise rely on for future growth will be limited. each of southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain market disruptions or a downgrade of the credit rating of southern company, any traditional operating company or southern power may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; capital market conditions generally; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on southern company facilities or unrelated energy companies; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility industry. southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, including their ability to obtain insurance, the financial stability of their respective customers and their ability to raise capital. the threat of terrorism and the related military action by the united states continue to affect the nation economy and financial markets. the insurance industry has also been disrupted by these events as well as recent hurricane activity on the gulf coast. the availability of insurance covering risks southern company, the traditional operating companies, southern power and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that southern company, the traditional operating companies and southern power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms. any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could constrain the capital available to southern company s, the traditional operating companies and southern power industry and could reduce access to funding for the respective operations of southern i-20 table of contents company, the traditional operating companies and southern power, as well as the financial stability of their respective customers and counterparties. these factors could adversely affect southern company subsidiaries ability to achieve energy sales growth, thereby decreasing southern company level of future net income. certain of the traditional operating companies have substantial investments in the gulf coast region which can be subject to major storm activity. the ability of the traditional operating companies to recover costs and replenish reserves in the event of a major storm, other natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event generally will require regulatory action. additionally, storm damage may affect the availability and cost of insurance to these traditional operating companies. each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from major storms to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generating facilities and other property. in september 2004, hurricane ivan hit the gulf coast of florida and alabama, causing significant damage to the service areas of alabama power and gulf power. in july and august 2005, hurricanes dennis and katrina, respectively, hit the gulf coast of the united states and caused significant damage in the service areas of gulf power, alabama power and mississippi power. in each case, costs to the respective traditional operating companies exceeded their respective storm cost reserves and insurance coverage and were subsequently approved for recovery by their respective state pscs. in the event a traditional operating company experiences a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc. while the traditional operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the applicable state psc or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company results of operations and/or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis - financial condition and liquidity market price risk of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant financial statements under financial instruments in item 8 herein. see also note 6 to the financial statements of southern company, each traditional operating company and southern power under financial instruments in item 8 herein. ii-2 table of contentsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. risks related to the energy industry southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including customer rates, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices, and the operation of fossil-fuel, hydroelectric, and nuclear generating facilities. for example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by southern power must be approved by the ferc and failure to maintain ferc market-based rate authority may impact the rates charged to wholesale customers. additionally, the respective state pscs must approve the traditional operating companies rates for retail customers. while the retail rates approved by the respective state pscs are designed to provide for recovery of costs and a return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that a state psc will not deem certain costs to be imprudently incurred and not subject to recovery. southern company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that their respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs. certain events in the energy markets that are beyond the control of southern company and its subsidiaries have increased the level of public and regulatory scrutiny in the energy industry and in the capital markets. the reaction to these events may result in new laws or regulations related to the business operations or the accounting treatment of the existing operations of southern company and its subsidiaries which could have a negative impact on the net income or access to capital of southern company and its subsidiaries. companies in regulated and unregulated electric utility businesses have been under an increased amount of public and regulatory scrutiny with respect to, among other things, accounting practices, financial disclosures, and relationships with independent auditors. this increased scrutiny has led to substantial changes in laws and regulations affecting southern company and its subsidiaries, including, among other things, enhanced internal control and auditor independence requirements, financial statement certification requirements, more frequent sec reviews of financial statements, and accelerated and additional sec filing requirements. new accounting and disclosure requirements have changed the way southern company and its subsidiaries are required to record revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. southern company expects continued regulatory focus on accounting and financial reporting issues. disruptions in the industry and any resulting additional regulations may have a negative impact on the net income or access to capital of southern company and its subsidiaries. general risks related to operation of southern company utility subsidiaries the regional power market in which southern company and its utility subsidiaries compete may have changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these assets and related i-13 table of contents revenues and expenses. the traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. transmission revenues are not separated from generation and distribution revenues in their approved retail rates. current ferc efforts that may potentially change the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission include rules related to the standardization of generation interconnection, as well as an inquiry into, among other things, market power by vertically integrated utilities. the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company and its utility subsidiaries could be adversely affected by future changes in the federal regulatory or operational structure of transmission. deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs which could negatively impact the net income of southern company and the traditional operating companies and the value of their respective assets. increased competition resulting from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on southern company and the traditional operating companies. any adoption in the territories served by the traditional operating companies of retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy service could have a significant adverse financial impact on southern company and the traditional operating companies due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins, an inability to recover reasonable costs, or increased costs of capital. southern company and the traditional operating companies cannot predict if or when they may be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can southern company and the traditional operating companies predict the impact of these changes. additionally, the electric utility industry has experienced a substantial increase in competition at the wholesale level. as a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, ipps, wholesale power marketers, and brokers and due to the trading of energy futures contracts on various commodities exchanges. in addition, ferc rules on transmission service are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on a nationwide basis by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. changes to the criteria used by the ferc for approval of market-based rate authority may negatively impact the traditional operating companies and southern power ability to charge market-based rates which could negatively impact the net income and cash flow of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. each of the traditional operating companies and southern power have authorization from the ferc to sell power to nonaffiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices. specific ferc approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based sale to an affiliate. in december 2004, the ferc initiated a proceeding to assess southern company generation dominance within its retail service territory. the ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is not an issue in the proceeding. any new market-based rate sales by any subsidiary of southern company in southern company retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in may 2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level. in late june and july 2007, hearings were held in this proceeding and the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision on november 9, 2007 regarding the methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. the proceedings are ongoing. the ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the ferc in a final order could require the traditional operating companies and southern power to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the southern company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in refunds of up to $19.7 million, plus interest. southern company and its subsidiaries believe that there is no meritorious basis for this proceeding and are vigorously defending themselves in this matter. i-14 table of contents on june 21, 2007, the ferc issued its final rule regarding market-based rate authority. the ferc generally retained its current market-based rate standards. the impact of this order and its effect on the generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined. risks related to environmental and climate change legislation and regulation southern company and the traditional operating companies costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws, including laws and regulations designed to address global climate change, and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could affect unit retirement decisions and negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water discharges, and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to adequately protect the environment. compliance with these legal requirements requires southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at all of their respective facilities. these expenditures are significant and southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power expect that they will increase in the future. through 2007, southern company had invested approximately $4.7 billion in capital projects to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $1.5 billion, $661 million, and $423 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. southern company expects that capital expenditures to assure compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an additional $1.8 billion, $1.5 billion, and $0.6 billion for 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively. because southern company compliance strategy is impacted by changes to existing environmental laws, statutes, and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and southern company fuel mix, the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and air and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the united states. in particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. if southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond their control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the epa has filed civil actions against alabama power and georgia power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. southern company is a party to suits alleging its emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming. an adverse outcome in either of these cases could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time, and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions, and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to global climate change, air quality, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. for example, legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on greenhouse gas emissions continue to be considered in congress. in addition, some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in july 2007, for example, the governor of the state of florida signed three executive orders addressing reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the state, including statewide emission reduction targets beginning in 2017. in 2007, the supreme court ruled that the epa has authority under the clean air act to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. the epa is currently developing its response to this decision. regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions and/or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on the facilities of the traditional operating companies or southern power or increased i-15 table of contents compliance costs which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce the net income of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. the cost impact of such legislation, regulation, or new interpretations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. risks related to southern company and its business southern company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to southern company. southern company is a holding company and, as such, southern company has no operations of its own. substantially all of southern company consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. southern company ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to southern company. prior to funding southern company, southern company subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. southern company subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide southern company with funds for its payment obligations. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if its subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities. southern company financial performance depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities. operating these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error or failure of equipment or processes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks; fuel or material supply interruptions; compliance with mandatory reliability standards; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from power produced by the electric generating facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. the revenues of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, or the failure to renew the ppas, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas having initial terms of five to 15 years. in addition, the traditional operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. even though southern power and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit evaluation process, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. although these credit i-16 table of contents evaluations take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than the credit evaluation predicts. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. if a ppa is not renewed, a replacement ppa cannot be assured. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or environmental facilities and may not be able to recover their investment. the facilities of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power require ongoing capital expenditures. certain of the traditional operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. southern company intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, expanding existing facilities and adding environmental control equipment. the completion of these types of projects without delays or cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor, including environmental laws and regulations; work stoppages; permits, approvals, and other regulatory matters; adverse weather conditions; unforeseen engineering problems; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect its facilities to transmission grids; unanticipated cost increases; and attention to other projects. tightening labor markets in the southeast and increasing costs of materials have resulted in increasing cost estimates for southern company subsidiaries construction projects. if a traditional operating company or southern power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or southern power and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional operating companies existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide reliable operations. changes in technology may make southern company electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies, and southern power less competitive. a key element of the business model of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a i-17 table of contents competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells. it is possible that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production. if this were to happen and if these technologies achieved economies of scale, the market share of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which retail electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of southern company nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power, and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for operation of, four nuclear units. these six units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 megawatts, or 8.8%, of southern company generation capacity as of december 31, 2007. these nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities, and the threat of a possible terrorist attack. alabama power and georgia power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, although alabama power, georgia power, and southern company have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at their plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. in addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. the generation and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce southern company s, the traditional operating companies, and southern power revenues and increase costs. the generation and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power receive from the sale of power. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power attempt to mitigate risks associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the traditional operating companies fuel cost recovery clauses or through ppas. among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; i-18 table of contents demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the service territory, nation and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on industrial and commercial demand for electricity and the worldwide demand for fuels; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. for the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. as a result of increasing fuel costs, the traditional operating companies have accrued significant underrecovered fuel cost balances. in addition, gulf power has a significant underrecovered balance in its storm cost recovery reserve as a result of hurricanes dennis and katrina. the traditional operating companies may experience similar deficit balances following future storms. while the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through special rate provisions administered by the respective pscs, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating company and southern company. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and financial market risks and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. southern company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. the traditional operating companies and southern power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. i-19 table of contents the traditional operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, and fuel oil, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate their respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for much of their electric generating capacity. each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional operating companies. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional operating companies. in addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through rates. in addition, southern power in particular, and the traditional operating companies to a lesser extent, are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed. for example, in connection with the 2005 hurricanes in the gulf of mexico, production and distribution of natural gas was limited for a period of time, resulting in shortages and significant increases in the price of natural gas. in addition, world market conditions for fuels, including the policies of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, can impact the price and availability of natural gas. demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. through the traditional operating companies and southern power, southern company is currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed southern company available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or southern power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation capabilities. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies recovery in customers rates. under southern power long-term fixed price ppas, southern power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash and borrowing ability of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. mirant and the official committee of unsecured creditors of mirant corporation have filed a claim against southern company seeking substantial monetary damages in connection with transfers made by mirant to southern company prior to the mirant spin-off. i-20 table of contents mirant was an energy company with businesses that included independent power projects and energy trading and risk management companies in the u.s. and selected other countries. it was a wholly-owned subsidiary of southern company until its initial public offering in october 2000. in april 2001, southern company completed a spin-off to its shareholders of its remaining ownership, and mirant became an independent corporate entity. in july 2003, mirant and certain of its affiliates filed for voluntary reorganization under chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code. in january 2006, mirant plan of reorganization became effective, and mirant emerged from bankruptcy. as part of the plan, mirant transferred substantially all of its assets and its restructured debt to a new corporation that adopted the name mirant corporation (reorganized mirant). in december 2004, as a result of concluding an irs audit for the tax years 2000 and 2001, southern company paid approximately $39 million in additional tax and interest related to mirant tax items and filed a claim in mirant bankruptcy case for that amount. through december 2007, southern company received from the irs approximately $36 million in refunds related to mirant. southern company believes it has a right to recoup the $39 million tax payment owed by mirant from such tax refunds. as a result, southern company intends to retain the tax refunds and reduce its claim against mirant for the payment of mirant taxes by the amount of such refunds. mc asset recovery, a special purpose subsidiary of reorganized mirant, has objected to and sought to equitably subordinate the southern company tax claim in its fraudulent transfer litigation against southern company. southern company has reserved the approximately $3 million amount remaining with respect to its mirant tax claim. if southern company is ultimately required to make any additional payments either with respect to the irs audit or its contingent obligations under guarantees of mirant subsidiaries, mirant indemnification obligation to southern company for these additional payments, if allowed, would constitute unsecured claims against mirant, entitled to stock in reorganized mirant. in june 2005, mirant, as a debtor in possession, and the official committee of unsecured creditors of mirant corporation filed a complaint against southern company in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the northern district of texas, which was amended in july 2005, february 2006, may 2006, and march 2007. in january 2006, mc asset recovery was substituted as plaintiff. the fourth amended complaint alleges that southern company caused mirant to engage in certain fraudulent transfers and to pay illegal dividends to southern company prior to the spin-off. the complaint also seeks to recharacterize certain advances from southern company to mirant for investments in energy facilities from debt to equity. the complaint further alleges that southern company is liable to mirant creditors for the full amount of mirant liability and that southern company breached its fiduciary duties to mirant and its creditors, caused mirant to breach fiduciary duties to its creditors, and aided and abetted breaches of fiduciary duties by mirant directors and officers. the complaint also seeks recoveries under theories of restitution, unjust enrichment, and alter ego. in addition, the complaint alleges a claim under the federal debt collection procedure act (fdcpa) to void certain transfers from mirant to southern company. mc asset recovery claims to have standing to assert violations of the fdcpa and to recover property on behalf of the mirant debtors estates. the complaint seeks monetary damages in excess of $2 billion plus interest, punitive damages, attorneys fees, and costs. finally, the complaint includes an objection to southern company pending claims against mirant in the bankruptcy court (which relate to reimbursement under the separation agreements of payments such as income taxes, interest, legal fees, and other guarantees described in note 7 to the financial statements of southern company in item 8 herein) and seeks equitable subordination of southern company claims to the claims of all other creditors. southern company served an answer to the complaint in april 2007. in february 2006, southern company motion to transfer the case to the u.s. district court for the northern district of georgia was granted. in may 2006, southern company filed a motion for summary judgment seeking entry of judgment against the plaintiff as to all counts in the complaint. in december 2006, the u.s. district court for the northern district of georgia granted in part and denied in part the motion. as a result, certain breach of fiduciary duty claims alleged in earlier versions of the complaint were barred; all other claims may proceed. southern company believes there is no meritorious basis for the claims in the complaint and is vigorously defending itself in this action. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. irs challenges to southern company income tax deductions taken in connection with three international leveraged lease transactions could result in the payment of substantial additional interest and penalties and i-21 table of contents could materially impact southern company cash flow and net income. southern company undergoes audits by the irs for each of its tax years. the irs has completed its audits of southern company consolidated federal income tax returns for all years prior to 2004. the irs challenged southern company deductions related to three international lease transactions (silo or sale-in-lease-out transactions), in connection with its audits of southern company 2000 through 2003 tax returns. in the third quarter 2006, southern company paid the full amount of the disputed tax and the applicable interest on the silo issue for tax years 2000 and 2001 and filed a claim for refund which was denied by the irs. the disputed tax amount was $79 million and the related interest approximately $24 million for these tax years. this payment, and the subsequent irs disallowance of the refund claim, closed the issue with the irs and southern company initiated litigation in the u.s. district court for the northern district of georgia for a complete refund of tax and interest paid for the 2000 and 2001 tax years. the irs also challenged the silo deductions for the tax years 2002 and 2003. the estimated amount of disputed tax and interest for these tax years was approximately $83 million and $15 million, respectively. the tax and interest for these tax years was paid to the irs in the fourth quarter 2006. southern company has accounted for both payments in 2006 as deposits. for the tax years 2000 through 2007, southern company has claimed approximately $330 million in tax benefits related to these silo transactions challenged by the irs. these tax benefits relate to timing differences and do not impact total net income. southern company believes these transactions are valid leases for u.s. tax purposes and the related deductions are allowable. southern company is continuing to pursue resolution of these matters; however, the ultimate outcome cannot now be determined. in addition, the u.s. senate is currently considering legislation that would disallow tax benefits after december 31, 2007 for silo losses and other international leveraged lease transactions (such as lease-in-lease-out transactions). the ultimate impact on southern company net income will be dependent on the outcome of the pending litigation and proposed legislation, but could be significant, and potentially material. risks related to market and economic volatility the business of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is dependent on their ability to successfully access capital markets. the inability of southern company, any traditional operating company or southern power to access capital may limit its ability to execute its business plan or pursue improvements and make acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on for future growth. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power is not able to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan or pursue improvements and make acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on for future growth will be limited. each of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain market disruptions or a downgrade of the credit rating of southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn or uncertainty; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; capital market conditions generally; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on southern company facilities or unrelated energy companies; war or threat of war; or i-22 table of contents the overall health of the utility industry. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, including their ability to obtain insurance, the financial stability of their respective customers, and their ability to raise capital. the threat of terrorism and the hurricanes that affected the gulf coast, among other things, have had disruptive effects on the insurance industry. the availability of insurance covering risks that southern company, the traditional operating companies, southern power, and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could negatively affect the financial stability of their respective customers and counterparties. these factors could adversely affect southern company subsidiaries ability to achieve energy sales growth, thereby decreasing southern company level of future net income. certain of the traditional operating companies have substantial investments in the gulf coast region which can be subject to major storm activity. the ability of the traditional operating companies to recover costs and replenish reserves in the event of a major storm, other natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event generally will require regulatory action. each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from major storms to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generating facilities and other property. in september 2004, hurricane ivan hit the gulf coast of florida and alabama, causing significant damage to the service areas of alabama power and gulf power. in july and august 2005, hurricanes dennis and katrina, respectively, hit the gulf coast of the united states and caused significant damage in the service areas of gulf power, alabama power, and mississippi power. in each case, costs to the respective traditional operating companies exceeded their respective storm cost reserves and insurance coverage and were subsequently approved for recovery by their respective state pscs. in the event a traditional operating company experiences a natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc. while the traditional operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the applicable state psc or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company and southern company results of operations and/or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis - financial condition and liquidity market price risk of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant financial statements under financial instruments in item 8 herein. see also note 6 to the financial statements of southern company, each traditional operating company, and southern power under financial instruments in item 8 herein. ii-3 table of contentsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. risks related to the energy industry southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including customer rates, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices, and the operation of fossil-fuel, hydroelectric, and nuclear generating facilities. for example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by southern power must be approved by the ferc and failure to maintain ferc market-based rate authority may impact the rates charged to wholesale customers. additionally, the respective state pscs must approve the traditional operating companies rates for retail customers. while the retail rates approved by the respective state pscs are designed to provide for recovery of costs and a return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that a state psc will not deem certain costs to be imprudently incurred and not subject to recovery. southern company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals, and certificates have been obtained for their respective existing operations and that their respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs. risks related to environmental and climate change legislation and regulation southern company and the traditional operating companies costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws, including laws and regulations designed to address global climate change and renewable energy standards, and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could affect unit retirement decisions and negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to adequately protect the environment. compliance with these legal requirements requires southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at all of their respective facilities. these expenditures are significant and southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power expect that they will increase in the future. through 2008, southern company had invested approximately $6.3 billion in capital projects to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $1.6 billion, $1.5 billion, and $661 million for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. southern company expects that capital expenditures to assure compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an additional $1.4 billion, $737 million, and $871 million for 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. because southern company compliance strategy is impacted by changes to existing environmental i-15 table of contents laws, statutes, and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emission allowances, and southern company fuel mix, the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the epa has filed civil actions against alabama power and georgia power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. southern company is a party to suits alleging emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming. an adverse outcome in any of these cases could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions, and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and air and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the united states. in particular, personal injury claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to global climate change, air quality, combustion byproducts, including coal ash, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. for example, federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on greenhouse gas emissions and renewable energy standards continue to be strongly considered in congress, and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has been identified as a high priority by the current administration. in addition, some states, including florida, are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in 2007, the u. s. supreme court ruled that the epa has authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. the epa is currently developing its response to this decision. regulatory decisions that will follow from this response may have implications for both new and existing stationary sources, such as power plants. new or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions and/or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on the facilities of the traditional operating companies or southern power or increased compliance costs which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce the net income of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. the cost impact of such legislation, regulation, or new interpretations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. general risks related to operation of southern company utility subsidiaries the regional power market in which southern company and its utility subsidiaries compete may have changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these assets and related revenues and expenses. the traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. transmission revenues are not separated from generation and distribution revenues in their approved retail rates. current ferc efforts that may potentially change the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission include rules related to the standardization of generation interconnection, as well as an inquiry into, among other things, market power by vertically integrated utilities. the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company and its utility subsidiaries could be adversely affected by future changes in the federal regulatory or operational structure of transmission. deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs which could negatively impact the net income of southern company and the traditional operating companies and the value of their respective assets. increased competition resulting from restructuring efforts could have a significant adverse financial impact on southern company and the traditional operating companies. any adoption in the territories served by the traditional i-16 table of contents operating companies of retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy service could have a significant adverse financial impact on southern company and the traditional operating companies due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins, an inability to recover reasonable costs, or increased costs of capital. southern company and the traditional operating companies cannot predict if or when they may be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can southern company and the traditional operating companies predict the impact of these changes. additionally, the electric utility industry has experienced a substantial increase in competition at the wholesale level. as a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, ipps, wholesale power marketers, and brokers and due to the trading of energy futures contracts on various commodities exchanges. in addition, ferc rules on transmission service are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on a nationwide basis by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. changes to the criteria used by the ferc for approval of market-based rate authority may negatively impact the traditional operating companies and southern power ability to charge market-based rates which could negatively impact the net income and cash flow of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. each of the traditional operating companies and southern power have authorization from the ferc to sell power to nonaffiliates, including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices. specific ferc approval must be obtained with respect to a market-based sale to an affiliate. in 2004, the ferc initiated a proceeding to assess southern company generation dominance within its retail service territory. the ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is not an issue in the proceeding. any new market-based rate sales by any subsidiary of southern company in southern company retail service territory entered into during a 15-month refund period that ended in may 2006 could be subject to refund to a cost-based rate level. in november 2007, the presiding administrative law judge issued an initial decision regarding the methodology to be used in the generation dominance tests. the proceedings are ongoing. the ultimate outcome of this generation dominance proceeding cannot now be determined, but an adverse decision by the ferc in a final order could require the traditional operating companies and southern power to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales in the southern company retail service territory, which may be lower than negotiated market-based rates, and could also result in total refunds of up to $19.7 million, plus interest. southern company and its subsidiaries believe that there is no meritorious basis for an adverse decision in this proceeding and are vigorously defending themselves in this matter. in june 2007, the ferc issued its final rule in order no. 697 regarding market-based rate authority. the ferc generally retained its current market-based rate standards. responding to a number of requests for rehearing, the ferc issued order no. 697-a on april 21, 2008 and order no. 697-b on december 12, 2008. these orders largely affirmed the ferc prior revision and codification of the regulations governing market-based rates for public utilities. in accordance with the orders, southern company submitted to the ferc an updated market power analysis on september 2, 2008 related to its continued market-based rate authority. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot now be determined. on october 17, 2008, southern company filed with the ferc a revised market-based rate (mbr) tariff and a new cost-based rate (cbr) tariff. the revised mbr tariff provides for a must offer energy auction whereby southern company offers all of its available energy for sale in a day-ahead auction and an hour-ahead auction with reserve prices not to exceed the cbr tariff price, after considering southern company native load requirements, reliability obligations, and sales commitments to third parties. all sales under the energy auction would be at market clearing prices established under the auction rules. the new cbr tariff provides for a cost-based price for wholesale sales of less than a year. on december 18, 2008, the ferc issued an order conditionally accepting the mbr tariff subject to certain revisions to the auction proposal. on january 21, 2009, southern company made a compliance filing that accepted all the conditions of the mbr tariff order. when this order becomes final, southern company will have 30 days to implement the wholesale auction. on december 31, 2008, the ferc issued an order conditionally accepting i-17 table of contents the cbr tariff subject to providing additional information. on january 30, 2009, southern company filed a response addressing the ferc inquiry to the cbr tariff order. implementation of the energy auction in accordance with the mbr tariff order is expected to adequately mitigate going forward any presumption of market power that southern company may have in the southern company retail service territory. the timing of when the ferc may issue final orders on the mbr and cbr tariffs and the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. risks related to southern company and its business southern company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to southern company. southern company is a holding company and, as such, southern company has no operations of its own. substantially all of southern company consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. southern company ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to southern company. prior to funding southern company, southern company subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. southern company subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide southern company with funds for its payment obligations. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if they are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities. operating these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error or failure of equipment or processes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks; fuel or material supply interruptions; compliance with mandatory reliability standards; information technology system failure; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as an avian influenza, or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. the traditional operating companies could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. as a result of the energy policy act of 2005, owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems, including the traditional operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the north american i-18 table of contents reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional operating companies and southern company to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if any traditional operating company is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, the traditional operating company could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. the revenues of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, or the failure to renew the ppas, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas. in addition, the traditional operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. even though southern power and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit evaluation process, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. although these credit evaluations take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than the credit evaluation predicts. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. if a ppa is not renewed, a replacement ppa cannot be assured. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investment. the facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power require ongoing capital expenditures. the businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, including those to meet environmental standards. certain of the traditional operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. southern company intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, including proposed new nuclear generating units and a proposed integrated coal gasification combined cycle facility, expanding existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. these types of projects are long-term in nature and may involve facility designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. the completion of these types of projects without delays or cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; work stoppages; contractor or supplier non-performance under construction or other agreements; delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, and other regulatory authorizations; impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; adverse weather conditions; unforeseen engineering problems; changes in project design or scope; environmental and geological conditions; i-19 table of contents delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor; and attention to other projects. if a traditional operating company or southern power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and there is no assurance that the traditional operating company will be able to recover such expenditures through regulated rates. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or southern power and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional operating companies existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide reliable operations. changes in technology may make southern company electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power less competitive. a key element of the business model of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells. it is possible that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production. if this were to happen and if these technologies achieved economies of scale, the market share of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of southern company nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for operation of, four nuclear units. these six units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 megawatts, or 8.6%, of southern company generation capacity as of december 31, 2008. these nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health, and financial risks such as on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities, and the threat of a possible terrorist attack. alabama power and georgia power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines i-20 table of contents or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, although alabama power, georgia power, and southern company have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at their plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. in addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. the generation operations and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce southern company s, the traditional operating companies , and southern power revenues and increase costs. the generation operations and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power receive from the sale of power. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power attempt to mitigate risks associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the traditional operating companies fuel cost recovery clauses or through ppas. among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on industrial and commercial demand for electricity and the worldwide demand for fuels; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or southern power and i-21 table of contents southern company. for the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. the traditional operating companies have experienced underrecovered fuel cost balances and deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may continue to experience such balances in the future. while the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through special rate provisions administered by the respective pscs, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating company and southern company. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate risks and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. southern company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management judgment or use of estimates. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. the traditional operating companies and southern power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, and fuel oil, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate their respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for much of their electric generating capacity. each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional operating companies. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional operating companies. in addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through rates. in addition, southern power in particular, and the traditional operating companies to a lesser extent, are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane. in addition, world market conditions for fuels can impact the availability of natural gas, coal, and uranium. demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. through the traditional operating companies and southern power, southern company is currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed southern company available generation capacity. market or i-22 table of contents competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or southern power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation capabilities. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies recovery in customers rates. under southern power long-term fixed price ppas, southern power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. demand for power could decrease or fail to grow at expected rates, resulting in stagnant or reduced revenues, limited growth opportunities, and potentially stranded generation assets. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power collectively engage in a long-term planning process to determine the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. this planning process must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation facilities. inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including regional economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation assets while such assets are being constructed, the traditional operating companies may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of additional capacity and the traditional operating companies recovery in customers rates. under southern power model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term ppas, southern power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. southern power may not be able to extend its existing ppas or to find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing ppas expire, or it may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash, and borrowing ability of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. mirant and the official committee of unsecured creditors of mirant corporation have filed a claim against southern company seeking substantial monetary damages in connection with transfers made by mirant to southern company prior to the mirant spin-off. an adverse outcome of this litigation could negatively impact the net income and cash flows of southern company. mirant was an energy company with businesses that included independent power projects and energy trading and risk management companies in the u.s. and selected other countries. it was a wholly-owned subsidiary of southern company until its initial public offering in october 2000. in april 2001, southern company completed a spin-off to its shareholders of its remaining ownership, and mirant became an independent corporate entity. in july 2003, mirant and certain of its affiliates filed for voluntary reorganization under chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code. in january 2006, mirant plan of reorganization became effective, and mirant emerged from bankruptcy. as part of the plan, mirant transferred substantially all of its assets and its restructured debt to a new corporation that adopted the name mirant corporation (reorganized mirant). i-23 table of contents in december 2004, as a result of concluding an irs audit for the tax years 2000 and 2001, southern company paid approximately $39 million in additional tax and interest related to mirant tax items and filed a claim in mirant bankruptcy case for that amount. through december 2008, southern company received from the irs approximately $38 million in refunds related to mirant. southern company believes it has a right to recoup the $39 million tax payment owed by mirant from such tax refunds. as a result, southern company intends to retain the tax refunds and reduce its claim against mirant for the payment of mirant taxes by the amount of such refunds. mc asset recovery, a special purpose subsidiary of reorganized mirant, has objected to and sought to equitably subordinate the southern company tax claim in its fraudulent transfer litigation against southern company. southern company has reserved the remaining amount with respect to its mirant tax claim. if southern company is ultimately required to make any additional payments either with respect to the irs audit or its contingent obligations under guarantees of mirant subsidiaries, mirant indemnification obligation to southern company for these additional payments, if allowed, would constitute unsecured claims against mirant, entitled to stock in reorganized mirant. the final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined. in june 2005, mirant, as a debtor in possession, and the official committee of unsecured creditors of mirant corporation filed a complaint against southern company in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the northern district of texas, which was amended in july 2005, february 2006, may 2006, and march 2007. in january 2006, mc asset recovery was substituted as plaintiff. the fourth amended complaint (the complaint) alleges that southern company caused mirant to engage in certain fraudulent transfers and to pay illegal dividends to southern company prior to the spin-off. the complaint also seeks to recharacterize certain advances from southern company to mirant for investments in energy facilities from debt to equity. the complaint further alleges that southern company is liable to mirant creditors for the full amount of mirant liability under an alter ego theory of recovery and that southern company breached its fiduciary duties to mirant and its creditors, caused mirant to breach its fiduciary duties to creditors, and aided and abetted breaches of fiduciary duties by mirant directors and officers. the complaint also seeks recoveries under the theories of restitution and unjust enrichment. in addition, the complaint alleged a claim under the federal debt collection procedure act (fdcpa) to avoid certain transfers from mirant to southern company; however, on july 7, 2008, the court ruled that the fdcpa does not apply and that georgia law should apply instead. the complaint seeks monetary damages in excess of $2 billion plus interest, punitive damages, attorneys fees, and costs. finally, the complaint includes an objection to southern company pending claims against mirant in the bankruptcy court (which relate to reimbursement under the separation agreements of payments such as income taxes, interest, legal fees, and other guarantees described in note 7 to the financial statements of southern company in item 8 herein) and seeks equitable subordination of southern company claims to the claims of all other creditors. southern company served an answer to the complaint in april 2007. in february 2006, the company motion to transfer the case to the u.s. district court for the northern district of georgia was granted. in may 2006, southern company filed a motion for summary judgment seeking entry of judgment against the plaintiff as to all counts in the complaint. in december 2006, the u.s. district court for the northern district of georgia granted in part and denied in part the motion. as a result, certain breach of fiduciary duty claims alleged in earlier versions of the complaint were barred; all other claims were allowed to proceed. on august 6, 2008, southern company filed a second motion for summary judgment. mc asset recovery filed its response to southern company motion for summary judgment on october 20, 2008. on february 5, 2009, the court denied southern company summary judgment motion in connection with the fraudulent conveyance and illegal dividend claims concerning certain advance return/loan repayments in 1999, dividends in 1999 and 2000, and transfers in connection with mirant separation from southern company. the court granted the motion with respect to certain claims, including claims for restitution and unjust enrichment, claims that southern company aided and abetted mirant directors breach of fiduciary duties to mirant, and claims that southern company used mirant as an alter ego. in addition, the court granted southern company motion in connection with the fraudulent transfer and illegal dividend claims concerning certain turbine termination payments. southern company believes there is no meritorious basis for the claims in the complaint and is vigorously defending itself in this action. see note 3 to the financial statements of southern company under mirant matters mc asset recovery litigation in item 8 herein. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot now be determined at this time. i-24 table of contents risks related to market and economic volatility the business of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. the inability of southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power is not able to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. in addition, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. each of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain market disruptions or a downgrade of the credit rating of southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power may increase its cost of borrowing, adversely affect its ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or its ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn or uncertainty; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company or financial institution; capital markets volatility and interruption; financial institution distress; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on southern company facilities or unrelated energy companies facilities; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plans and decommissioning trust assets, which then could require significant additional funding. the performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust under southern company pension and postretirement benefit plans and the assets held in trust to satisfy obligations to decommission alabama power and georgia power nuclear plants. southern company, alabama power, and georgia power have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below projected return rates. a decline in the market value of these assets, as has been experienced in prior periods, may increase the funding requirements relating to southern company benefit plan liabilities and alabama power and georgia power decommissioning obligations. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under southern company pension and postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. if southern company is unable to successfully manage benefit plan assets and alabama power and georgia i-25 table of contents power are unable to successfully manage the decommissioning trust funds, results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, which could impact their ability to obtain adequate insurance and the financial stability of the customers of the traditional operating companies and southern power. the financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and the hurricanes that affected the gulf coast, among other things, have had disruptive effects on the insurance industry. the availability of insurance covering risks that southern company, the traditional operating companies, southern power, and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. additionally, any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could negatively affect the financial stability of the customers and counterparties of the traditional operating companies and southern power. these factors could adversely affect southern company subsidiaries ability to maintain energy sales, thereby decreasing southern company level of future net income. certain of the traditional operating companies have substantial investments in the atlantic or gulf coast regions which can be subject to major storm activity. the ability of the traditional operating companies to recover costs and replenish reserves in the event of a major storm, other natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event generally will require regulatory action. each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from major storms to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generating facilities and other property. in the event a traditional operating company experiences a natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc. while the traditional operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the applicable state psc or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company and southern company results of operations and/or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis - financial condition and liquidity market price risk of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant financial statements under financial instruments in item 8 herein. see also note 6 to the financial statements of southern company, each traditional operating company, and southern power under financial instruments in item 8 herein. ii-3 table of contentsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. risks related to the energy industry southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including rates and charges, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices, and the operation of fossil-fuel, hydroelectric, and nuclear generating facilities. for example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by southern power must be approved by the ferc. these wholesale rates could be affected absent the ability to conduct business pursuant to ferc market-based rate authority. additionally, the respective state pscs must approve the traditional operating companies requested rates for retail customers. while the retail rates of the traditional operating companies are designed to provide for the full recovery of costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital), there can be no assurance that a state psc, in a future rate proceeding, will not attempt to alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is sought or to modify the current authorized rate of return. southern company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals, and certificates have been obtained for their respective existing operations and that their respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs. risks related to environmental and climate change legislation and regulation southern company s, the traditional operating companies , and southern power costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws, including laws and regulations designed to address global climate change, renewable energy standards, air quality, coal combustion byproducts, and other matters and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could affect unit retirement decisions and negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to adequately protect the environment. compliance with these legal requirements requires southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at all of their respective facilities. these expenditures are significant and southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power expect that they will increase in the future. through 2009, southern company had invested approximately $7.5 billion in capital projects to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $1.3 billion, $1.6 billion, and $1.5 billion for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. southern company expects that capital expenditures to assure compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an additional $545 million, $721 million, and $1.2 billion for 2010, 2011, and 2012, i-16 table of contents respectively. because the compliance strategy is impacted by changes to existing environmental laws, statutes, and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emissions allowances, and the fuel mix, the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the epa has filed civil actions against alabama power and georgia power and issued notices of violation to gulf power and mississippi power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. southern company is a party to suits alleging emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming. an adverse outcome in any of these matters could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions, and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates or market-based rates for southern power. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the united states. in particular, personal injury and other claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials, and common law nuisance claims for injunctive relief and property damage allegedly caused by greenhouse gas and other emissions, have become more frequent. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to global climate change, air quality, coal combustion byproducts, including coal ash, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. for example, federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on greenhouse gas emissions and renewable energy standards continue to be actively considered in congress, and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has been identified as a high priority by the current administration. on june 26, 2009, the american clean energy and security act of 2009, which would impose mandatory greenhouse gas restrictions through implementation of a cap and trade program, a renewable energy standard, and other measures, was passed by the house of representatives. similar legislation is being considered by the senate. in 2007, the u. s. supreme court ruled that the epa has authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. on december 15, 2009, the epa published a final determination, which became effective on january 14, 2010, that certain greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles endanger public health and welfare due to climate change. the epa has stated that finalization of this rule will cause carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases to become regulated pollutants under certain provisions of the clean air act applicable to stationary sources, including power plants. on october 27, 2009, the epa published a proposed rule governing how these programs would be applied to such sources. the epa has stated that it expects to finalize these proposed rules in march 2010. in addition, the epa is expected to issue additional regulations and designations with respect to air quality under the clean air act, including eight-hour ozone standards, sulfur dioxide standards, a replacement clean air interstate rule relating to nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions, and a maximum achievable control technology rule for coal and oil-fired electric generating units, which will likely address numerous hazardous air pollutants, including mercury. in addition, the epa is currently evaluating whether additional regulation of coal combustion byproducts is merited under federal solid and hazardous waste laws. the epa is expected to issue a proposal regarding additional regulation of coal combustion byproducts in early 2010. international climate change negotiations under the united nations framework convention on climate change also continue. a nonbinding agreement was announced during the most recent round of negotiations in december 2009 that included a pledge from both developed and developing countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. the cost impact of such legislation, regulation, new interpretations, or international negotiations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. for example, the impact of currently proposed legislation relating to greenhouse gas emissions would depend on a variety of factors, including the specific greenhouse gas emissions limits or renewable energy requirements, the timing of implementation of these i-17 table of contents limits or requirements, the level of emissions allowances allocated and the level that must be purchased, the purchase price of emissions allowances, the development and commercial availability of technologies for renewable energy and for the reduction of emissions, the degree to which offsets may be used for compliance, provisions for cost containment (if any), the impact on coal and natural gas prices, and cost recovery through regulated rates or market-based rates for southern power. although the outcome cannot be determined at this time, legislation or regulation related to greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy standards, air quality, coal combustion byproducts and other matters, individually or together, are likely to result in significant and additional compliance costs, including significant capital expenditures, and could result in additional operating restrictions. these costs could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions, and could result in the retirement of a significant number of coal-fired generating units of the traditional operating companies. additional compliance costs and costs related to potential unit retirements could affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered from customers. further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could negatively impact results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. general risks related to operation of southern company utility subsidiaries the regional power market in which southern company and its utility subsidiaries compete may have changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these assets and related revenues and expenses. the traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. transmission revenues are not separated from generation and distribution revenues in their approved retail rates. current ferc efforts that may potentially change the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission include rules related to the standardization of generation interconnection. the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company and its utility subsidiaries could be adversely affected by future changes in the federal regulatory or operational structure of transmission. the net income of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be negatively impacted by competitive activity in the wholesale electricity markets. competition at the wholesale level continues to expand and evolve in the electricity markets. as a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity markets has increased due to greater participation by traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, ipps, wholesale power marketers, and brokers. ferc rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on a nationwide basis by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers, including initiatives designed to promote and encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. moreover, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, futures contracts and derivatives are traded on various commodities exchanges. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power cannot predict the impact of these and other such developments, nor can they predict the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond their control. risks related to southern company and its business southern company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to southern company. southern company is a holding company and, as such, southern company has no operations of its own. substantially all of southern company consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. southern company ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to southern company. prior to funding southern company, southern company subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions and financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. southern company subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide southern company with funds for its payment obligations. i-18 table of contents the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if they are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities. operating these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error or failure of equipment or processes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks; fuel or material supply interruptions; compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards; information technology system failure; cyber intrusion; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences. a severe drought could reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. a decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. the traditional operating companies could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. as a result of the energy policy act of 2005, owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems, including the traditional operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the north american reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional operating companies and southern company to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if any traditional operating company is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, the traditional operating company could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. the revenues of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, or the failure to renew the ppas, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas. in addition, the traditional operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. even though southern power and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit evaluation process, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. although these credit evaluations take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than the i-19 table of contents credit evaluation predicts. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. if a ppa is not renewed, a replacement ppa cannot be assured. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. the facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power require ongoing capital expenditures. the businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, including those to meet environmental standards. certain of the traditional operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. southern company intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, including new nuclear generating units, combined cycle units, including the proposed integrated coal gasification combined cycle facility, and the proposed biomass generating units, expanding existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. these types of projects are long-term in nature and may involve facility designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. the completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; work stoppages; contractor or supplier non-performance under construction or other agreements; delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, and other regulatory authorizations; impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; adverse weather conditions; unforeseen engineering problems; changes in project design or scope; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor; and attention to other projects. in addition, with respect to the construction of new nuclear units, a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units. if a traditional operating company or southern power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and there is no assurance that the traditional operating company will be able to recover such expenditures through regulated rates. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. i-20 table of contents furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or southern power and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional operating companies existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide reliable operations. changes in technology may make southern company electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power less competitive. a key element of the business model of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells. it is possible that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production. if this were to happen and if these technologies achieved economies of scale, the market share of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of southern company nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units and the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. the six existing units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 megawatts, or 8.6%, of southern company generation capacity as of december 31, 2009. nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health, and financial risks such as on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities, and the threat of a possible terrorist attack. alabama power and georgia power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, although alabama power, georgia power, and southern company have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at their plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. in addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. the generation operations and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including i-21 table of contents changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce southern company s, the traditional operating companies , and southern power revenues and increase costs. the generation operations and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power receive from the sale of power. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power attempt to mitigate risks associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the traditional operating companies fuel cost recovery clauses or through ppas. among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on industrial and commercial demand for electricity and the worldwide demand for fuels; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. for the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. historically, the traditional operating companies from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel cost balances and deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such balances in the future. while the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through special rate provisions administered by the respective pscs, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating company and southern company. i-22 table of contents a downgrade in the credit ratings of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power to post collateral or replace certain indebtedness. there are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any of the rating agencies conclude that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power has deteriorated. changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if one or more rating agencies downgrade southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power, borrowing costs would increase, its pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. southern company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures. these risk management policies, limits, and procedures might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, derivative contracts entered for hedging purposes might not off-set the underlying exposure being hedged as expected resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management judgment or use of estimates. the factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. the traditional operating companies and southern power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, and fuel oil, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate their respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for much of their electric generating capacity. each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional operating companies. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional operating companies. in addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through rates. in addition, southern power in particular, and the traditional operating companies to a lesser extent, are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in i-23 table of contents the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane. in addition, world market conditions for fuels can impact the availability of natural gas, coal, and uranium. demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. through the traditional operating companies and southern power, southern company is currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed southern company available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or southern power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation capabilities. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies recovery in customers rates. under southern power long-term fixed price ppas, southern power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. demand for power could decrease or fail to grow at expected rates, resulting in stagnant or reduced revenues, limited growth opportunities, and potentially stranded generation assets. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power each engage in a long-term planning process to determine the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. this planning process must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation facilities. inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including regional economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation assets while such assets are being constructed, the traditional operating companies may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of additional capacity and the traditional operating companies recovery in customers rates. under southern power model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term ppas, southern power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. southern power may not be able to extend its existing ppas or to find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing ppas expire, or it may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. in addition, significant weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and droughts, or a terrorist attack could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of the traditional operating companies and southern power and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity. electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, the traditional operating companies and southern power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash, and borrowing ability of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. in addition, volatile or significant weather events or a terrorist attack could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional operating companies and the generating facilities of the i-24 table of contents traditional operating companies and southern power. the traditional operating companies and southern power have significant investments in the atlantic and gulf coast regions which could be subject to major storm activity. further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from weather events to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generating facilities and other property. in the event a traditional operating company experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster, or other catastrophic event, such as a terrorist attack, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc. while the traditional operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the applicable state psc or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company and southern company results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional operating company or affecting southern power customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity. for example, hurricane katrina hit the gulf coast of mississippi in august 2005 and caused substantial damage within mississippi power service territory. as of december 31, 2009, mississippi power had approximately 4.6% fewer retail customers as compared to pre-storm levels. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand for electricity could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company s, southern power s, and southern company results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact southern company and its subsidiaries results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skillset to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. such operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, especially with the workforce needs associated with new nuclear construction. failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect southern company and its subsidiaries ability to manage and operate their businesses. if southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies, are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. risks related to market and economic volatility the business of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. the inability of southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power is not able to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. in addition, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. each of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain market disruptions may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or its ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of i-25 table of contents capital. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn or uncertainty; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company or financial institution; capital markets volatility and interruption; financial institution distress; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on southern company facilities or unrelated energy companies facilities; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plans and decommissioning trust assets or may increase medical costs, which then could require significant additional funding. the performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust under southern company pension and postretirement benefit plans and the assets held in trust to satisfy obligations to decommission alabama power and georgia power nuclear plants. southern company, alabama power, and georgia power have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below projected return rates. a decline in the market value of these assets, as has been experienced in prior periods, may increase the funding requirements relating to southern company benefit plan liabilities and alabama power and georgia power decommissioning obligations. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under southern company pension and postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. southern company and its subsidiaries are also facing rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than anticipated. if southern company is unable to successfully manage benefit plan assets and medical benefit costs and alabama power and georgia power are unable to successfully manage the decommissioning trust funds, results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. additionally, southern company and its subsidiaries may also be affected by the potential passage of healthcare legislation. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, which could impact their ability to obtain adequate insurance and the financial stability of the customers of the traditional operating companies and southern power. the financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and the hurricanes that affected the gulf coast, among other things, have had disruptive effects on the insurance industry. the availability of insurance covering risks that southern company, the traditional operating companies, southern power, and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. additionally, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in their applicable service territory and are thus impacted by the economic cycles of the customers each serves. any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could negatively affect the financial stability of the customers and counterparties of the traditional operating companies and southern i-26 table of contents power. as territories served by the traditional operating companies and southern power experience economic downturns, energy consumption patterns may change and revenues may be negatively impacted. additionally, customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity in response to decreases in their disposable income or individual conservation efforts. if commercial and industrial customers experience economic downturns, their consumption of electricity may decline. as a result, revenues may be negatively impacted. further, the results of operations of the traditional operating companies and southern power are affected by customer growth in their applicable service territory. customer growth and customer usage can be affected by economic factors in the service territory of the traditional operating companies and southern power and elsewhere, including, for example, job and income growth, housing starts, and new home prices. a population decline and/or business closings in the territory served by the traditional operating companies or southern power or slower than anticipated customer growth as a result of the current recession or otherwise could also have a negative impact on revenues and could result in greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. as with other parts of the country, the territories served by the traditional operating companies and southern power have been impacted by the current economic recession. the traditional operating companies have experienced some decline in the rate of residential and commercial sales growth, and also have experienced declining sales to commercial and industrial customers due to the economic recession. southern power is expected to experience reduced future revenues for its requirements customers due to the economic recession. the timing and extent of the recovery cannot be predicted. these and the other factors discussed above could adversely affect southern company s, the traditional operating companies , and southern power level of future net income. energy conservation and energy price increases could negatively impact financial results. a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed or introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. conservation programs could impact the financial results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power in different ways. to the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand, the value of wholesale generation assets of the traditional operating companies and southern power and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. in addition, conservation could negatively impact the traditional operating companies depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. if any traditional operating company is required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional operating company and southern company. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could also be impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis - financial condition and liquidity market price risk of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant financial statements under financial instruments in item 8 herein. see also note 10 to the financial statements of southern company, alabama power, and georgia power, note 9 to the financial statements of gulf power and mississippi power, and note 8 to the financial statements of southern power in item 8 herein. ii-3 table of contentsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. risks related to the energy industry southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including rates and charges, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices, including any changes in accounting standards, and the operation of fossil-fuel, hydroelectric, solar, and nuclear generating facilities. for example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by southern power must be approved by the ferc. these wholesale rates could be affected absent the ability to conduct business pursuant to ferc market-based rate authority. additionally, the respective state pscs must approve the traditional operating companies requested rates for retail customers. while the retail rates of the traditional operating companies are designed to provide for the full recovery of costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital), there can be no assurance that a state psc, in a future rate proceeding, will not attempt to alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is sought or to modify the current authorized rate of return. southern company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals, and certificates have been obtained for their respective existing operations and that their respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs. risks related to environmental and climate change legislation , regulation, and litigation southern company s, the traditional operating companies , and southern power costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws, including laws and regulations designed to address global climate change, renewable energy standards, air and water quality, coal combustion byproducts, and other matters and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could affect unit retirement decisions and negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to adequately protect the environment. compliance with these legal requirements requires southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at all of their respective facilities. these expenditures are significant and southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power expect that they will increase in the future. through 2010, southern company had invested approximately $8.1 billion in environmental capital retrofit projects to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $500 million, $1.3 billion, and $1.6 billion for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. southern company expects that capital expenditures to comply with existing i-17 table of contents statutes and regulations will be $341 million, $427 million, and $452 million for 2011, 2012, and 2013, respectively. in addition, the southern company system currently estimates that potential incremental investments to comply with anticipated new environmental regulations could range from $74 million to $289 million in 2011, $191 million to $670 million in 2012, and $476 million to $1.9 billion in 2013. the compliance strategy, including potential unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures will be affected by the final requirements of any new or revised environmental statutes and regulations that are enacted, including proposed environmental legislation and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emissions allowances, and the fuel mix of the electric utilities. the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the epa has filed civil actions against alabama power and georgia power and issued notices of violation to gulf power and mississippi power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. southern company is also a party to suits alleging that emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global climate change. an adverse outcome in any of these matters could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions, and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates for the traditional operating companies or market-based rates for southern power. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as opacity and air and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the united states. in particular, personal injury and other claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials, and common law nuisance claims for injunctive relief and property damage allegedly caused by greenhouse gas and other emissions, have become more frequent. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to global climate change, air quality, water quality, coal combustion byproducts, including coal ash, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. for example, the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions through legislation or regulation has been, and continues to be, a focus of the current administration. although federal legislative proposals that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy standards, and/or energy efficiency standards failed to pass before the end of the 2010 session, such proposals are expected to continue to be considered in the future. while climate legislation has yet to be adopted, the epa is moving forward with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the clean air act. in april 2007, the u.s. supreme court ruled that the epa has authority under the clean air act to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles. in december 2009, the epa published a final determination, which became effective on january 14, 2010, that certain greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles endanger public health and welfare due to climate change. on april 1, 2010, the epa issued a final rule regulating greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles under the clean air act. the epa has taken the position that when this rule became effective on january 2, 2011, carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases became regulated pollutants under the prevention of significant deterioration (psd) preconstruction permit program and the title v operating permit program, which both apply to power plants and other commercial and industrial facilities. as a result, the construction of new facilities or the major modifications of existing facilities could trigger the requirement for a psd permit and the installation of the best available control technology for carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. on may 13, 2010, the epa issued a final rule, known as the tailoring rule, governing how these programs would be applied to stationary sources, including power plants. this rule establishes two phases for applying psd and title v requirements to greenhouse gas emissions sources. the first phase, which began on january 2, 2011, applies to sources and projects that would already be covered under psd or title v, whereas the second phase will begin on july 1, 2011 and applies to sources and projects that would not otherwise trigger those programs but for their greenhouse gas emissions. in addition to these rules, the epa has entered into a proposed settlement agreement to issue standards of performance for greenhouse gas emissions from new and modified fossil-fuel fired electric generating units and greenhouse gas emissions guidelines for existing sources. under the proposed settlement agreement, the epa commits to issue the proposed standards by july 2011 and the final standards by may 2012. international climate change negotiations under the united nations framework convention on climate change also continue. the december 2009 negotiations resulted in a nonbinding agreement that included a pledge from both developed and developing countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. the most recent round of negotiations took place in december 2010. the outcome and impact of the international negotiations cannot be determined at this time. i-18 table of contents additionally, during 2010 the epa proposed revisions, revised or issued additional regulations and designations with respect to air quality under the clean air act, including eight-hour ozone standards, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide standards, a replacement to the clean air interstate rule relating to nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions, and continues to work on a proposed maximum achievable control technology rule for coal and oil-fired electric generating units, which will likely address numerous hazardous air pollutants, including mercury. the epa is currently evaluating whether additional regulation of coal combustion byproducts (including coal ash and gypsum) is merited under federal solid and hazardous waste laws. on june 21, 2010, the epa published a proposed rule that requested comments on two potential regulatory options for the management and disposal of coal combustion byproducts: regulation as a solid waste or regulation as if the materials technically constituted a hazardous waste. adoption of either option could require closure of, or significant change to, existing storage facilities and construction of lined landfills, as well as additional waste management and groundwater monitoring requirements. under both options, the epa proposes to exempt the beneficial reuse of coal combustion byproducts from regulation; however, a hazardous or other designation indicative of heightened risk could limit or eliminate beneficial reuse options. on november 19, 2010, southern company filed publicly available comments with the epa regarding the rulemaking proposal. these comments included a preliminary cost analysis under various alternatives in the rulemaking proposal. southern company regards these estimates as pre-screening figures that should be distinguished from the more formalized cost estimates southern company provides for projects that are more definite as to the elements and timing of execution. although its analysis was preliminary, southern company concluded that potential compliance costs under the proposed rules would be substantially higher than the estimates reflected in the epa rulemaking proposal. the ultimate cost impact of such legislation, regulation, new interpretations, or international negotiations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. although the outcome of such legislation, regulation, new interpretations, or international negotiations cannot be determined at this time, legislation or regulation related to greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy standards, air and water quality, coal combustion byproducts and other matters, individually or together, are likely to result in significant and additional compliance costs, including significant capital expenditures, and could result in additional operating restrictions. these costs will affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions, and could result in the retirement of a significant number of coal-fired generating units of the traditional operating companies. moreover, the traditional operating companies could incur additional material asset retirement obligations with respect to closing existing coal combustion byproduct storage facilities. additional compliance costs and costs related to potential unit retirements could affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered from customers. further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could negatively impact results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. risks related to southern company and its business the regional power market in which southern company and its utility subsidiaries compete may have changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these assets and related revenues and expenses. the traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. a small percentage of transmission revenues are collected through the wholesale electric tariff but the majority of transmission revenues are collected through retail rates. ongoing ferc efforts that may potentially change the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission could have an adverse impact on future revenues. in addition, pending ferc regulation pertaining to cost allocation could require the southern company and its utility subsidiaries to subsidize costs outside its service territory. the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company and its utility subsidiaries could be adversely affected by pending or future changes in the federal regulatory or operational structure of transmission. the net income of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be negatively impacted by competitive activity in the wholesale electricity markets. competition at the wholesale level continues to evolve in the electricity markets. as a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity markets has increased due to greater participation i-19 table of contents by traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, ipps, wholesale power marketers, and brokers. ferc rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on a nationwide basis by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers, including initiatives designed to promote and encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. moreover, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, futures contracts and derivatives are traded on various commodities exchanges. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power cannot predict the impact of these and other such developments, nor can they predict the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond their control. southern company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to southern company. southern company is a holding company and, as such, southern company has no operations of its own. substantially all of southern company consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. southern company ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to southern company. prior to funding southern company, southern company subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions and financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. southern company subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide southern company with funds for its payment obligations. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if they are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities. operating these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error or failure of equipment or processes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks; fuel or material supply interruptions; compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards; information technology system failure; cyber intrusion; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. i-20 table of contents with respect to southern company investments in leverage leases, the recovery of its investment is dependent on the profitable operation of the leased assets by the respective lessees. a significant deterioration in the performance of the leased asset could result in the impairment of the related lease receivable. the traditional operating companies and southern power could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. as a result of the energy policy act of 2005, owners and operators of bulk power transmission systems, including the traditional operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the north american reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional operating companies, southern power, and southern company to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if any traditional operating company or southern power is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, the traditional operating company and southern power could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. the revenues of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, or the failure to renew the ppas, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas. in addition, the traditional operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. even though southern power and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit evaluation process, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. although these credit evaluations take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than the credit evaluation predicts. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. if a ppa is not renewed, a replacement ppa cannot be assured. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. the facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power require ongoing capital expenditures. the businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, including those to meet environmental standards. certain of the traditional operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. southern company intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, including new nuclear generating, combined cycle, igcc, and biomass generating units, expanding existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. these types of projects are long-term in nature and may involve facility designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. the completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; work stoppages; contractor or supplier non-performance under construction or other agreements; delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, and other regulatory authorizations; impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; i-21 table of contents continued public and policymaker support for such projects; adverse weather conditions; unforeseen engineering problems; changes in project design or scope; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; and unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor. in addition, with respect to the construction of new nuclear units, a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units. if a traditional operating company or southern power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and there is no assurance that the traditional operating company will be able to recover such expenditures through regulated rates. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. construction delays also may result in the loss of otherwise available investment tax credits and other tax incentives. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or southern power and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional operating companies existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide reliable operations. changes in technology may make southern company electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power less competitive. a key element of the business model of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells. it is possible that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production. if this were to happen and if these technologies achieved economies of scale, the market share of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. i-22 table of contents operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of southern company nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units and the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. the six existing units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 megawatts, or 8.6%, of southern company generation capacity as of december 31, 2010. nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health, and financial risks such as on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities, and the threat of a possible terrorist attack. alabama power and georgia power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, although alabama power, georgia power, and southern company have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at their plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. in addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. the generation operations and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce southern company s, the traditional operating companies , and southern power revenues and increase costs. the generation operations and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power receive from the sale of power. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. in addition, the proportion of natural gas generation to the total fuel mix is likely to increase in the future. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power attempt to mitigate risks associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the traditional operating companies fuel cost recovery clauses or through ppas. among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, biomass, and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; seasonality; i-23 table of contents transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on industrial and commercial demand for electricity and the worldwide demand for fuels; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. for the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. historically, the traditional operating companies from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel cost balances and deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such balances in the future. while the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through special rate provisions administered by the respective pscs, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating company and southern company. a downgrade in the credit ratings of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power to post collateral or replace certain indebtedness. there are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any of the rating agencies conclude that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power has deteriorated. changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if one or more rating agencies downgrade southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power, borrowing costs would increase, its pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, significant collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. southern company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures. these risk i-24 table of contents management policies, limits, and procedures might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, derivative contracts entered for hedging purposes might not off-set the underlying exposure being hedged as expected resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management judgment or use of estimates. the factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) enacted in july 2010 could impact the use of over-the-counter derivatives by southern company and its subsidiaries. regulations to implement the dodd-frank act could impose additional requirements on the use of over-the-counter derivatives, such as margin and reporting requirements, which could affect both the use and cost of over-the-counter derivatives. the impact, if any, cannot be determined until regulations are finalized. the traditional operating companies and southern power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and biomass, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate their respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for much of their electric generating capacity. each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional operating companies. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional operating companies. in addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through rates. in addition, the traditional operating companies and southern power to a greater extent are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane. in addition, world market conditions for fuels can impact the availability of natural gas, coal, and uranium. demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. through the traditional operating companies and southern power, southern company is currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed southern company available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or southern power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation capabilities. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies recovery in customers rates. under southern power long-term fixed price ppas, southern power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. i-25 table of contents demand for power could decrease or fail to grow at expected rates, resulting in stagnant or reduced revenues, limited growth opportunities, and potentially stranded generation assets. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power each engage in a long-term planning process to determine the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. this planning process must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation facilities. inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including regional economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation assets while such assets are being constructed, the traditional operating companies may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of additional capacity and the traditional operating companies recovery in customers rates. under southern power model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term ppas, southern power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. southern power may not be able to extend its existing ppas or to find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing ppas expire, or it may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. in addition, significant weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and droughts, or a terrorist attack could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of the traditional operating companies and southern power and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity. electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, the traditional operating companies and southern power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash, and borrowing ability of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. in addition, volatile or significant weather events or a terrorist attack could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional operating companies and the generating facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power. the traditional operating companies and southern power have significant investments in the atlantic and gulf coast regions which could be subject to major storm activity. further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from weather events to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generating facilities and other property. in the event a traditional operating company experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster, or other catastrophic event, such as a terrorist attack, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc. while the traditional operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the applicable state psc or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company and southern company results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional operating company or affecting southern power customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity for extended periods. for example, hurricane katrina hit the gulf coast of mississippi in august 2005 and caused substantial damage within mississippi power service territory. as of december 31, 2010, mississippi power had approximately 4.3% fewer retail customers as compared to pre-storm levels. any significant i-26 table of contents loss of customers or reduction in demand for electricity could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company s, southern power s, and southern company results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact southern company and its subsidiaries results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skillset to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. such operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, especially with the workforce needs associated with new nuclear construction. failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect southern company and its subsidiaries ability to manage and operate their businesses. if southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies, are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. risks related to market and economic volatility the business of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. the inability of southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power is not able to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. in addition, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. each of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain market disruptions may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or its ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn or uncertainty; the bankruptcy or financial distress at an unrelated energy company or financial institution; capital markets volatility and interruption; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on southern company facilities or unrelated energy companies facilities; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. i-27 table of contents market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust assets or may increase plan costs, which then could require significant additional funding. the performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust under southern company pension and postretirement benefit plans and the assets held in trust to satisfy obligations to decommission alabama power and georgia power nuclear plants. southern company, alabama power, and georgia power have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below projected return rates. a decline in the market value of these assets, as has been experienced in prior periods, may increase the funding requirements relating to southern company benefit plan liabilities and alabama power and georgia power nuclear decommissioning obligations. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under southern company pension and postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. southern company and its subsidiaries are also facing rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than anticipated. if southern company is unable to successfully manage benefit plan assets and medical benefit costs and alabama power and georgia power are unable to successfully manage the nuclear decommissioning trust funds, results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. additionally, southern company and its subsidiaries may also be affected by healthcare legislation. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, which could impact their ability to obtain adequate insurance and the financial stability of the customers of the traditional operating companies and southern power. the financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and the hurricanes that affected the gulf coast, among other things, have had disruptive effects on the insurance industry. the availability of insurance covering risks that southern company, the traditional operating companies, southern power, and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. additionally, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in their applicable service territory and are thus impacted by the economic cycles of the customers each serves. any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could negatively affect the financial stability of the customers and counterparties of the traditional operating companies and southern power. as territories served by the traditional operating companies and southern power experience economic downturns, energy consumption patterns may change and revenues may be negatively impacted. additionally, customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity in response to decreases in their disposable income or individual conservation efforts. if commercial and industrial customers experience economic downturns, their consumption of electricity may decline. as a result, revenues may be negatively impacted. further, the results of operations of the traditional operating companies and southern power are affected by customer growth in their applicable service territory. customer growth and customer usage can be affected by economic factors in the service territory of the traditional operating companies and southern power and elsewhere, including, for example, job and income growth, housing starts, and new home prices. a population decline and/or business closings in the territory served by the traditional operating companies or southern power or slower than anticipated customer growth as a result of the recent recession or otherwise could also have a negative impact on revenues and could result in greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. as with other parts of the country, the territories served by the traditional operating companies and southern power have been impacted by the recent economic recession. the traditional operating companies have experienced some decline in the rate of residential and commercial sales growth, and also have experienced declining sales to commercial and industrial customers due to the recent economic recession. southern power is expected to continue to experience reduced future revenues for its requirements customers due to the recent economic recession. the timing and extent of the recovery cannot be predicted. i-28 table of contents these and the other factors discussed above could adversely affect southern company s, the traditional operating companies , and southern power level of future net income. energy conservation and energy price increases could negatively impact financial results. a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed or introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. conservation programs could impact the financial results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power in different ways. to the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand, the value of wholesale generation assets of the traditional operating companies and southern power and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. in addition, conservation could negatively impact the traditional operating companies depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. if any traditional operating company is required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional operating company and southern company. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could also be impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis financial condition and liquidity market price risk of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant financial statements under financial instruments in item 8 herein. see also note 10 to the financial statements of southern company, alabama power, and georgia power, note 9 to the financial statements of gulf power and mississippi power, and note 8 to the financial statements of southern power in item 8 herein. ii-3 table of contentsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. utility regulatory, legislative, and litigation risks southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including rates and charges, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices, and the operation of fossil-fuel, hydroelectric, solar, and nuclear generating facilities, as well as transmission and distribution facilities. for example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by southern power must be approved by the ferc. these wholesale rates could be affected absent the ability to conduct business pursuant to ferc market-based rate authority. additionally, the respective state pscs must approve the traditional operating companies requested rates for retail customers. while the retail rates of the traditional operating companies are designed to provide for the full recovery of costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital), there can be no assurance that a state psc, in a future rate proceeding, will not attempt to alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is sought or to modify the current authorized rate of return. southern company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals, and certificates have been obtained for their respective existing operations and that their respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs. the southern company system costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with current and future environmental laws, including laws and regulations designed to address air quality, water, coal combustion byproducts, global climate change, renewable energy standards, and other matters and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. the southern company system is subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to adequately protect the environment. compliance with these environmental requirements requires the traditional operating companies and southern power to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at substantially all of their respective facilities. these expenditures are significant and southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power expect that they will increase in the future. through 2011, the traditional operating companies had invested approximately $8.3 billion in environmental capital retrofit projects to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $300 million, $500 million, and $1.3 billion for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to air quality, water, coal combustion byproducts, global climate change, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to the traditional operating companies and southern power. i-18 table of contents index to financial statements during 2011, the epa proposed revisions and revised or issued additional regulations and designations with respect to air quality under the clean air act, including finalization of the eight-hour ozone standards, the csapr, which relates to nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions, and the mats rule for coal- and oil-fired electric generating units, which imposes stringent emissions limits for acid gases, mercury, and total particulate matter. on april 20, 2011, the epa published a proposed water quality rule relating to cooling water intake structures at existing power plants and manufacturing facilities. compliance with the proposed rule could require changes to existing cooling water intake structures at certain of the traditional operating companies generating facilities, and new generating units constructed at existing plants would be required to install closed cycle cooling towers. in addition, the epa is currently evaluating whether additional regulation of coal combustion byproducts (including coal ash and gypsum) is merited under federal solid and hazardous waste laws. in june 2010, the epa published a proposed rule that requested comments on two potential regulatory options for the management and disposal of coal combustion byproducts: regulation as a solid waste or regulation as if the materials technically constituted a hazardous waste. adoption of either option could require closure of, or significant change to, existing storage facilities and construction of lined landfills, as well as additional waste management and groundwater monitoring requirements and impact of the beneficial reuse of coal combustion byproducts. under both options, the epa proposes to exempt the beneficial use of coal combustion byproducts from regulation; however, a hazardous or other designation indicative of heightened risk could limit or eliminate beneficial reuse options. in 2007, the u.s. supreme court ruled that the epa has authority under the clean air act to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles, and, in april 2010, the epa issued regulations to that effect. when these regulations became effective, carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases became regulated pollutants under the prevention of significant deterioration (psd) preconstruction permit program and the title v operating permit program, which both apply to power plants and other commercial and industrial facilities. in may 2010, the epa issued a final rule, known as the tailoring rule, governing how these programs would be applied to stationary sources, including power plants. in addition to these rules, the epa has announced plans to propose a rule setting forth standards of performance for greenhouse gas emissions from new and modified fossil fuel-fired electric generating units in early 2012 and greenhouse gas emissions guidelines for existing sources in late 2012. the ultimate outcome of these rules cannot be determined at this time and will depend on the outcome of any legal challenges. each of the states in which the southern company system has fossil generation is subject to the requirements of cair, which calls for phased reductions in sulfur dioxide (so 2 ) and nitrogen oxide (no x ) emissions from power plants in 28 eastern states. on august 8, 2011, the epa adopted the csapr to replace cair effective january 1, 2012. like cair, the csapr was intended to address interstate emissions of so 2 and no x that interfere with downwind states ability to meet or maintain national ambient air quality standards for ozone and/or particulate matter. on february 7, 2012, the epa released the final technical revisions to the csapr and at the same time issued a direct final rule which together provide additional increases to certain state emissions budgets, including the states of florida, georgia, and mississippi. on february 16, 2012, the epa published the final mats rule, which imposes stringent emissions limits for acid gases, mercury, and total particulate matter on coal- and oil-fired electric utility steam generating units. compliance for existing sources is required by april 16, 2015 three years after the effective date of the final rule. the southern company system is assessing the potential costs of complying with the mats rule, as well as the epa proposed water and coal combustion byproducts rules. the southern company system compliance strategy, including potential unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures are dependent on a final assessment of the mats rule and will be affected by the final requirements of new or revised environmental regulations that are promulgated, including the proposed environmental regulations described above; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules; the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emissions allowances; and the fuel mix of the electric utilities. these costs may arise from existing unit retirements, installation of additional environmental controls, upgrades to the transmission system, the addition of new generating resources, and changing fuel sources for certain existing units. the southern company system preliminary analysis further indicates that the short timeframe for compliance with the mats rule could i-19 table of contents index to financial statements significantly affect electric system reliability and cause an increase in costs of materials and services. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. additional compliance costs (including costs for the installation of environmental controls) and costs related to potential unit retirements and replacements could affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered from customers. further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could negatively impact results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the epa has filed civil actions against alabama power and georgia power and issued notices of violation to gulf power and mississippi power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. southern company, the traditional operating companies (excluding mississippi power), and southern power are also parties to suits alleging that emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global climate change. an adverse outcome in any of these matters could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates for the traditional operating companies or market-based rates for southern power. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as air quality and water standards, has increased generally throughout the u.s. in particular, personal injury and other claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials, and common law nuisance claims for injunctive relief and property damage allegedly caused by greenhouse gas and other emissions, have become more frequent. the ultimate cost impact of proposed and final legislation and regulations and litigation are likely to result in significant and additional costs and could result in additional operating restrictions. the regional power market in which the southern company system competes may have changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these assets and related revenues and expenses. the traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. a small percentage of transmission revenues are collected through the wholesale electric tariff but the majority of transmission revenues are collected through retail rates. ongoing ferc efforts that may potentially change the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission could have an adverse impact on future revenues. in addition, pending ferc regulation pertaining to cost allocation could require southern company and its utility subsidiaries to subsidize costs outside of the southern company system retail service territory. the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company and its utility subsidiaries could be adversely affected by pending or future changes in the federal regulatory or operational structure of transmission. the traditional operating companies and southern power could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. as a result of the energy policy act of 2005, owners and operators of bulk power systems, including the traditional operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the north american reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional operating companies, southern power, and southern company to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. in addition, the mats rule imposes stringent emission limits for acid gases, mercury, and total particulate matter on coal- and oil-fired electric utility steam generating units. there is uncertainty regarding the ability of the electric utility industry to achieve compliance with the requirements of the mats rule within the compliance period, and the limited compliance period could significantly affect electric system reliability and thus impact the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to comply with mandatory reliability standards. if any traditional operating company or southern power is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, such traditional operating company or southern power could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. i-20 table of contents index to financial statements operational risks the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if the subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities. operating these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error or failure of equipment or processes, particularly with older generating facilities; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks; fuel or material supply interruptions; compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards; implementation of technologies with which the southern company system is developing experience; information technology system failure; cyber intrusion; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. changes in technology may make southern company electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power less competitive. a key element of the business model of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells. it is possible that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production. if this were to happen and if these technologies achieved economies of scale, the market share of the traditional operating companies and southern power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. i-21 table of contents index to financial statements operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health, regulatory, natural disasters, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of the nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units. the six existing units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 mws, or 8.4%, of southern company generation capacity as of december 31, 2011. in addition, southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, which are expected to attain commercial operation in 2016 and 2017, respectively. due solely to the increase in nuclear generating capacity, the below risks are expected to increase once plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are operational. nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health, and financial risks such as: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of spent nuclear fuel; uncertainties with respect to the on-site storage of and the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of licensed lives and the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the nuclear operations of alabama power and georgia power or those of others in the united states; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; significant capital expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair of these facilities, including repairs and upgrades required by the nrc; the threat of a possible terrorist attack; and the impact of a natural disaster. alabama power and georgia power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. as a result of the major earthquake and tsunami that struck japan on march 11, 2011 and caused substantial damage to the nuclear generating units at the fukushima daiichi generating plant, the nrc is performing additional operational and safety reviews of nuclear facilities in the u.s., which could potentially impact future operations and capital requirements. on july 12, 2011, a special nrc task force issued a report with initial recommendations for enhancing nuclear reactor safety in the u.s., including potential changes in emergency planning, onsite backup generation, and spent fuel pools for reactors. the final form and the resulting impact of any changes to safety requirements for nuclear reactors will be dependent on further review and action by the nrc and cannot be determined at this time. in the event of non-compliance with nrc licensing and safety-related requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, although alabama power, georgia power, and southern company have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at the southern company system i-22 table of contents index to financial statements nuclear plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the united states could require alabama power and georgia power to make material contributory payments. in addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict. physical or cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, could impact the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. the traditional operating companies and southern power face the risk of physical and cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, against their respective generation facilities, the transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport power, and their information technology systems and network infrastructure, which could negatively impact the ability of the traditional operating companies or southern power to generate, transport, and deliver power, or otherwise operate their respective facilities in the most efficient manner or at all. the traditional operating companies and southern power operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of an interconnected regional grid. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the traditional operating companies and southern power collect and retain sensitive information including personal identification information about customers and employees and other confidential information. despite the implementation of security measures, all technology systems are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error or physical or cyber attacks. if the traditional operating companies or southern power technology systems were to fail or be breached and were not recovered in a timely way, the traditional operating companies or southern power may be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. the theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data may also subject the applicable traditional operating company or southern power to penalties and claims from third parties. these events could negatively affect the financial results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power through lost revenues, costs to recover and repair damage, and costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks. the traditional operating companies and southern power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and biomass, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate their respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for much of their electric generating capacity. each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional operating companies. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional operating companies. in addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through rates. in addition, the traditional operating companies and southern power to a greater extent are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane. i-23 table of contents index to financial statements in addition, world market conditions for fuels can impact the cost and availability of natural gas, coal, and uranium. the revenues of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, or the failure to renew the ppas, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas. in addition, the traditional operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. even though southern power and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit evaluation process, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. although these credit evaluations take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than the credit evaluation predicts. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. if a ppa is not renewed, a replacement ppa cannot be assured. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact southern company and its subsidiaries results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skillset to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. such operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, especially with the workforce needs associated with new nuclear and igcc construction. failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect southern company and its subsidiaries ability to manage and operate their businesses. if southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies, are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. construction risks southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. also, existing facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power require ongoing capital expenditures, including those to meet environmental standards. the businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, including those to meet environmental standards. certain of the traditional operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. southern company intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, including new nuclear generating, combined cycle, igcc, and biomass generating units, expanding existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. these types of projects are long-term in nature and may involve facility designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. the completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; work stoppages; contractor or supplier delay or non-performance under construction or other agreements; i-24 table of contents index to financial statements delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, and other regulatory authorizations; impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; adverse weather conditions; unforeseen engineering problems; changes in project design or scope; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; and unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor. in addition, with respect to the construction of new nuclear units and the operation of existing nuclear units, a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units or require additional safety measures at new and existing units. as a result of the major earthquake and tsunami that struck japan on march 11, 2011 and caused substantial damage to the nuclear generating units at the fukushima daiichi generating plant, the nrc is performing additional operational and safety reviews of nuclear facilities in the u.s., which could potentially impact future operations and capital requirements. on july 12, 2011, a special nrc task force issued a report with initial recommendations for enhancing nuclear reactor safety in the u.s., including potential changes in emergency planning, onsite backup generation, and spent fuel pools for reactors. the final form and the resulting impact of any changes to safety requirements for nuclear reactors will be dependent on further review and action by the nrc and cannot be determined at this time. if a traditional operating company or southern power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and there is no assurance that the traditional operating company will be able to recover such expenditures through regulated rates. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. construction delays also may result in the loss of otherwise available investment tax credits and other tax incentives. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or southern power and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. the two largest construction projects currently underway in the southern company system are the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 and the construction of the kemper igcc. southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of and will operate plant vogtle units 3 and 4. georgia power owns 45.7% of the new units, with a certified cost of approximately $6.1 billion. the georgia psc has approved georgia power total costs of $1.7 billion for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 incurred through june 30, 2011. georgia power will continue to file construction monitoring reports by february 28 and august 31 of each year during the construction period. the cols for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 were received on february 10, 2012. receipt of the cols allows full construction to begin on plant vogtle units 3 and 4, which are expected to obtain commercial operation in 2016 and 2017, respectively. during the course of construction activities, issues have materialized that may impact the project budget and schedule, including potential costs associated with compressing the project schedule to meet the projected commercial operation dates. in addition, there have been technical and procedural challenges to the construction and licensing of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. similar additional challenges at the state and federal level are expected as construction proceeds. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. i-25 table of contents index to financial statements in addition, mississippi power is constructing the kemper igcc. in july 2010, mississippi power and smepa entered into an asset purchase agreement whereby smepa agreed to purchase a 17.5% undivided ownership interest in the kemper igcc. the closing of this transaction is conditioned upon execution of a joint ownership and operating agreement, receipt of all construction permits, appropriate regulatory approvals, financing, and other conditions. the estimated cost of the plant is $2.4 billion, net of $245 million of grants awarded to the project by the doe under the clean coal power initiative round 2. the mississippi psc order approving the kemper igcc included a construction cost cap of $2.88 billion (excluding the cost of the lignite mine equipment and the carbon dioxide pipeline facilities) and provides for the establishment of operational cost and revenue parameters based upon the assumptions in mississippi power proposal. as of december 31, 2011, mississippi power had spent a total of approximately $943.3 million on the kemper igcc, including regulatory filing costs. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional operating companies existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide reliable operations. financial, economic, and market risks the generation operations and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce southern company s, the traditional operating companies , and southern power revenues and increase costs. the generation operations and energy marketing operations of the southern company system are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount received from the sale of power. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. in addition, the proportion of natural gas generation to the total fuel mix is likely to increase in the future. the southern company system attempts to mitigate risks associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the traditional operating companies fuel cost recovery clauses or through ppas. among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, biomass, and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; i-26 table of contents index to financial statements the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on demand for electricity and the demand for fuels; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. for the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. historically, the traditional operating companies from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel cost balances and deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such balances and deficits in the future. while the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through special rate provisions administered by the respective pscs, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred, and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating company and southern company. southern company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to southern company. southern company is a holding company and, as such, southern company has no operations of its own. substantially all of southern company consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. southern company ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to southern company. prior to funding southern company, southern company subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions and financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. southern company subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide southern company with funds. a downgrade in the credit ratings of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power to post collateral or replace certain indebtedness. there are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any rating agency concludes that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power has deteriorated. changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if one or more rating agencies downgrade southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power, borrowing costs would increase, the pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, significant collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. i-27 table of contents index to financial statements the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. southern company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures. these risk management policies, limits, and procedures might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, derivative contracts entered for hedging purposes might not off-set the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management judgment or use of estimates. the factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) enacted in july 2010 could impact the use of over-the-counter derivatives by southern company and its subsidiaries. regulations to implement the dodd-frank act could impose additional requirements on the use of over-the-counter derivatives, such as margin and reporting requirements, which could affect both the use and cost of over-the-counter derivatives. the impact, if any, cannot be determined until regulations are finalized. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment as well as the financial stability of the customers of the traditional operating companies and southern power. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in their applicable service territory and are thus impacted by the economic cycles of the customers each serves. any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets, both nationally and internationally, could negatively affect the financial stability of the customers and counterparties of the traditional operating companies and southern power. as territories served by the traditional operating companies and southern power experience economic downturns, energy consumption patterns may change and revenues may be negatively impacted. customer growth and customer usage can be affected by economic factors in the service territory of the traditional operating companies and southern power and elsewhere, including, for example, job and income growth, housing starts, and new home prices. adverse economic conditions, a population decline, and/or business closings in the territory served by the traditional operating companies or southern power or slower than anticipated customer growth as a result of a recessionary economy or otherwise could also have a negative impact on revenues and could result in greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. as with other parts of the country, the territories served by the traditional operating companies and southern power have been impacted by the recent economic recession. the traditional operating companies have experienced residential and commercial sales that continue to be below historical trends due to the recent economic recession. southern power is expected to continue to experience reduced future revenues for its requirements customers due to the recent economic recession. the timing and extent of the recovery cannot be predicted. stronger or more rapid than expected economic growth, coupled with the effects of current and future environmental regulations applicable to the traditional operating companies or southern power, could impact the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to meet the energy demands of their customers. weaker or slower than expected economic growth could have a negative impact on revenues, could result in greater expense for uncollected customer balances, and could adversely impact the value of generation assets of the traditional operating companies and southern power. all of the factors discussed above could adversely affect southern company s, the traditional operating companies , and southern power level of future net income. i-28 table of contents index to financial statements demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power are currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed the southern company system available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or southern power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation facilities. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies recovery in customers rates. under southern power long-term fixed price ppas, southern power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and for southern company. demand for power could decrease or fail to grow at expected rates, resulting in stagnant or reduced revenues, limited growth opportunities, and potentially stranded generation assets. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power each engage in a long-term planning process to determine the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. this planning process must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation facilities. inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including regional economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation assets while such assets are being constructed, the traditional operating companies may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of additional capacity and the traditional operating companies recovery in customers rates. under southern power model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term ppas, southern power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. southern power may not be able to extend its existing ppas or to find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing ppas expire, or it may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and for southern company. energy conservation and energy price increases could negatively impact financial results. customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy price, or individual conservation efforts. in addition, a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed or introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. conservation programs could impact the financial results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power in different ways. for example, if any traditional operating company is required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional operating company and southern company. certain of the traditional operating companies actively promote energy conservation programs, which have been approved by their respective state pscs. regulatory mechanisms have been established that provide for the recovery of costs related to such programs and lost revenues as a result of such programs. however, to the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand beyond what is anticipated, the value of generation assets of the traditional operating companies and southern power and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted and the traditional operating companies could be negatively impacted depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. in addition, the failure of those traditional operating companies who actively promote energy conservation programs to achieve the energy conservation targets established by their respective state pscs could negatively impact such traditional operating company ability to recover costs and receive certain benefits related to such programs. i-29 table of contents index to financial statements additionally, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could also be negatively impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on their respective financial condition or results of operations. the operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. in addition, significant weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and droughts could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of the traditional operating companies and southern power and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity. electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, the traditional operating companies and southern power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash, and borrowing ability of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. in addition, volatile or significant weather events could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional operating companies and the generating facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power. the traditional operating companies and southern power have significant investments in the atlantic and gulf coast regions which could be subject to major storm activity. further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from weather events to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generating facilities and other property. in the event a traditional operating company experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc. while the traditional operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the applicable state psc or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company and southern company results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional operating company or affecting southern power customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity for extended periods. for example, hurricane katrina hit the gulf coast of mississippi in 2005 and caused substantial damage within mississippi power service territory. as of december 31, 2011, mississippi power had over 8,300 fewer retail customers as compared to pre-storm levels due to obstacles in the rebuilding process as a result of the storm, coupled with the recessionary economy. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand for electricity could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company s, southern power s, and southern company results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. i-30 table of contents index to financial statements the business of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. the inability of southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power is not able to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. in addition, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. each of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or the ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn or uncertainty; the bankruptcy or financial distress at an unrelated energy company, financial institution, or sovereign entity; capital markets volatility and disruption, both nationally and internationally; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on southern company facilities or unrelated energy companies facilities; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust assets or may increase plan costs, which then could require significant additional funding. the performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust under southern company pension and postretirement benefit plans and the assets held in trust to satisfy obligations to decommission alabama power and georgia power nuclear plants. southern company, alabama power, and georgia power have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below projected return rates. a decline in the market value of these assets, as has been experienced in prior periods, may increase the funding requirements relating to benefit plan liabilities of the southern company system and alabama power and georgia power nuclear decommissioning obligations. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under pension and postretirement benefit plans of the southern company system; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. southern company and its subsidiaries are also facing rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than anticipated. if the southern company system is unable to successfully manage i-31 table of contents index to financial statements benefit plan assets and medical benefit costs and alabama power and georgia power are unable to successfully manage the nuclear decommissioning trust funds, results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. southern company may be unable to recover its investment in its leveraged leases if a lessee fails to profitably operate the leased assets. southern company has several leveraged lease agreements, with terms ranging up to 45 years, which relate to international and domestic energy generation, distribution, and transportation assets. southern company receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on long-term debt related to these investments. southern company reviews all important lease assumptions at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that a change in assumptions has occurred or may occur. with respect to southern company investments in leveraged leases, the recovery of its investment is dependent on the profitable operation of the leased assets by the respective lessees. a significant deterioration in the performance of the leased asset could result in the impairment of the related lease receivable. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance. the financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and natural disasters, among other things, could have disruptive effects on insurance markets. the availability of insurance covering risks that southern company, the traditional operating companies, southern power, and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. further, while southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power maintain an amount of insurance protection that they consider adequate, there is no guarantee that the insurance policies selected by them will cover all of the potential exposures or the actual amount of loss incurred. any losses not covered by insurance could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. the net income of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be negatively impacted by a wholesale electric market structure in which southern company could not be competitive with other market participants. competition at the wholesale level continues to evolve in the electricity markets. as a result of changes in federal law, regulatory uncertainty, and industry restructuring, competing in the wholesale electricity markets has become more challenging. ferc rules related to transmission are intended to spur the development of new transmission infrastructure as well as facilitate competition in the wholesale market by providing more choices to wholesale power customers, including initiatives designed to promote and encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. however, transmission regulation impacts wholesale transaction structures, and generation regulation may impact wholesale markets. in addition to the impacts on transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact power hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges as well as over-the-counter. finally, technology changes in the power and fuel industries continue to create significant impacts to wholesale transaction cost structures. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power cannot predict the impact of these and other such developments, nor can they predict the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond their control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis financial condition and liquidity market price risk of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant financial statements under financial instruments in item 8 herein. see also note 10 to the financial statements of southern company, alabama power, and georgia power, note 9 to the financial statements of gulf power and mississippi power, and note 8 to the financial statements of southern power in item 8 herein. ii-3 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management's discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. utility regulatory, legislative, and litigation risks southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including rates and charges, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices, and the operation of fossil-fuel, nuclear, hydroelectric, solar, and biomass generating facilities, as well as transmission and distribution facilities. for example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by southern power must be approved by the ferc. these wholesale rates could be affected absent the ability to conduct business pursuant to ferc market-based rate authority. additionally, the respective state pscs must approve the traditional operating companies' requested rates for retail customers. while the retail rates of the traditional operating companies are designed to provide for the full recovery of costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital), there can be no assurance that a state psc, in a future rate proceeding, will not attempt to alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is sought or to modify the current authorized rate of return. southern company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals, and certificates have been obtained for their respective existing operations and that their respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs. the southern company system's costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with current and future environmental laws, including laws and regulations designed to address air quality, water, coal combustion byproducts, global climate change, renewable energy standards, and other matters and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and/or southern power. the southern company system is subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to adequately protect the environment. compliance with these environmental requirements requires the traditional operating companies and southern power to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at substantially all of their respective facilities. these expenditures are significant and southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power expect that they will increase in the future. through 2012, the traditional operating companies had invested approximately $8.7 billion in environmental capital retrofit projects to comply with these requirements. the epa has adopted and is in the process of implementing regulations governing the emission of nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, fine particulate matter, mercury, and other air pollutants under the clean air act through the national ambient air quality standards, cair, the mats rule, and other air quality regulations and is in the process of considering additional revisions. in addition, the epa has proposed additional regulations governing cooling water intake structures and is expected to propose revisions to the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants under i-14 table of contents index to financial statements the clean water act. the epa is also evaluating whether additional regulation of coal combustion byproducts (including coal ash and gypsum) is merited under federal solid and hazardous waste laws. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to air quality, water, coal combustion byproducts, global climate change, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to the traditional operating companies and/or southern power. in addition, the epa has determined that emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases are regulated pollutants under the prevention of significant deterioration preconstruction permit program and the title v operating permit program, which both apply to power plants and other commercial and industrial facilities. on april 13, 2012, the epa published proposed regulations to establish standards of performance for greenhouse gas emissions from new fossil fuel steam electric generating units and has indicated that it will propose standards of performance for existing units in the future. the southern company system's ultimate environmental compliance strategy, including potential unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures will be affected by the final requirements of new or revised environmental regulations and regulations relating to global climate change that are promulgated; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules; the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emissions allowances; and the fuel mix of the electric utilities. compliance costs may arise from existing unit retirements, installation of additional environmental controls, upgrades to the transmission system, and adding or changing fuel sources for certain existing units. additionally, if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the epa has filed civil actions against alabama power and georgia power and issued notices of violation to gulf power and mississippi power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are also parties to suits alleging that emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, contribute to global climate change. an adverse outcome in any of these matters could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. compliance costs related to federal and state environmental statutes and regulations could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be fully recovered in rates on a timely basis. environmental compliance spending over the next several years may differ materially from the amounts estimated. the timing, specific requirements, and estimated costs could change as environmental statutes and regulations are adopted or modified. such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates for the traditional operating companies or market-based rates for southern power. further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could negatively affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as air quality and water standards, has increased generally throughout the u.s. in particular, personal injury, property damage, and other claims for damages alleged to have been caused by co 2 and other emissions, coal combustion byproducts, and alleged exposure to hazardous materials, and/or requests for injunctive relief in connection with such matters, have become more frequent. the ultimate cost impact of proposed and final legislation and regulations and litigation are likely to result in significant and additional costs and could result in additional operating restrictions. the net income of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be negatively impacted by changes in regulations related to transmission planning processes and competition in the wholesale electric markets. the traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. a small percentage of transmission revenues are collected through the wholesale electric tariff but the majority of transmission revenues are collected through retail rates. proposed or potential changes in federal law, regulatory uncertainty, and industry restructuring are expected to continue to present challenges to the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission and competition on the wholesale level. any changes could have an adverse impact on the ownership of transmission assets and/or future revenues. as an example, pending ferc regulation pertaining to cost allocation for regional transmission projects could require southern company and its utility subsidiaries to subsidize costs outside of the southern company system's retail service territory. i-15 table of contents index to financial statements the ferc rules related to transmission are intended to spur the development of new transmission infrastructure to promote and encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply as well as facilitate competition in the wholesale market by providing more choices to wholesale power customers. in addition to the impacts on transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations also impact power hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges as well as over-the-counter. finally, technology changes in the power and fuel industries continue to create significant impacts to wholesale transaction cost structures. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power cannot predict the impact of these and other such developments, nor can they predict the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond their control. the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be adversely affected by these and other changes. the traditional operating companies and southern power could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. owners and operators of bulk power systems, including the traditional operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the north american reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional operating companies, southern power, and southern company to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. if any traditional operating company or southern power is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, such traditional operating company or southern power could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. operational risks the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if the subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries' electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities. operating these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error or failure of equipment or processes, particularly with older generating facilities; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks; fuel or material supply interruptions; compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards; implementation of technologies with which the southern company system is developing experience; information technology system failure; cyber intrusion; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. in addition, an investment in a subsidiary with such generation, transmission, or distribution facilities could be adversely impacted. i-16 table of contents index to financial statements operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health, regulatory, natural disasters, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of the nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units. the six existing units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 mws, or 8.0%, of southern company's generation capacity as of december 31, 2012. in addition, southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. due solely to the increase in nuclear generating capacity, the below risks are expected to increase once plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are operational. nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health, and financial risks such as: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of spent nuclear fuel; uncertainties with respect to the on-site storage of and the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of licensed lives and the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the nuclear operations of alabama power and georgia power or those of others in the united states; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; significant capital expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair of these facilities, including repairs and upgrades required by the nrc; the threat of a possible terrorist attack; and the impact of a natural disaster. alabama power and georgia power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. as a result of the major earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march 2011 and caused substantial damage to the nuclear generating units at the fukushima daiichi generating plant, the nrc is performing additional operational and safety reviews of nuclear facilities in the u.s., which could potentially impact future operations and capital requirements. the nrc also issued three orders and the nrc staff issued guidance on acceptable approaches for compliance with these orders before the december 31, 2016 deadline, that included, among other items, additional mitigation strategies for beyond-design-basis events, enhanced spent fuel pool instrumentation capabilities, hardened vents for certain classes of containment structures, including the one in use at plant hatch, site specific evaluations for seismic and flooding hazards, and various plant evaluations to ensure adequate coping capabilities during station blackout and other conditions. the final form and the resulting impact of any changes to safety requirements for nuclear reactors will be dependent on further review and action by the nrc and cannot be determined at this time. in the event of non-compliance with nrc licensing and safety-related requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, although alabama power, georgia power, and southern company have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at the southern company system nuclear plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the united states could require alabama power and georgia power to make material contributory payments. i-17 table of contents index to financial statements in addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict. physical or cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, could impact the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. the traditional operating companies and southern power face the risk of physical and cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, against their respective generation facilities, the transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport power, and their information technology systems and network infrastructure, which could negatively impact the ability of the traditional operating companies or southern power to generate, transport, and deliver power, or otherwise operate their respective facilities in the most efficient manner or at all. the traditional operating companies and southern power operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of an interconnected regional grid. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the traditional operating companies and southern power collect and retain sensitive information including personal identification information about customers and employees and other confidential information. the traditional operating companies and southern power face on-going threats to their business networks. despite the implementation of robust security measures, all technology systems are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error or physical or cyber attacks. if the traditional operating companies' or southern power's technology systems were to fail or be breached and were not recovered in a timely way, the traditional operating companies or southern power may be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. the theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data may also subject the applicable traditional operating company or southern power to penalties and claims from third parties. these events could negatively affect the financial results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power through lost revenues, costs to recover and repair damage, and costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks. the traditional operating companies and southern power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and biomass, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate their respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for a portion of their electric generating capacity. each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional operating companies. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional operating companies. in addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through rates. in addition, the traditional operating companies and southern power to a greater extent are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. in many instances, the cost of purchased power for the traditional operating companies and southern power is influenced by natural gas prices. historically, natural gas prices have been more volatile than prices of other fuels. in recent years, domestic natural gas prices have been depressed by robust supplies, including production from shale gas, as well as lower demand. these market conditions, together with additional regulation of coal-fired generating units, have increased the traditional operating companies' reliance on natural gas-fired generating units. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane. the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility may have a material impact on the supply and cost of natural gas. i-18 table of contents index to financial statements in addition, world market conditions for fuels can impact the cost and availability of natural gas, coal, and uranium. the revenues of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, or the failure to renew the ppas, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power's generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas. in addition, the traditional operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. even though southern power and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit evaluation process and contractual protections, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. although these credit evaluations and contractual protections take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than predicted. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. if a ppa is not renewed, a replacement ppa cannot be assured. changes in technology may make southern company's electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power less competitive. a key element of the business models of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells. it is possible that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production. if these technologies became cost competitive and achieved economies of scale, the market share of the traditional operating companies and southern power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact southern company's and its subsidiaries' results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. such operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, especially with the workforce needs associated with new nuclear and igcc construction. failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect southern company and its subsidiaries' ability to manage and operate their businesses. if southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies, are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. construction risks southern company, the traditional operating companies, and/or southern power may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. also, existing facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power require ongoing capital expenditures, including those to meet environmental standards. the businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, including those to meet environmental standards. certain of the traditional operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. the southern company system intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, expanding existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. these types of projects are long-term in nature and in some cases involve facility designs that have not been i-19 table of contents index to financial statements finalized or previously constructed. the completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; work stoppages; contractor or supplier delay or non-performance under construction or other agreements or non-performance by other major participants in construction projects; delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, and other regulatory authorizations; impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; the outcome of legal challenges to regulatory approvals; failure to construct in accordance with licensing requirements; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; adverse weather conditions; unforeseen engineering problems; changes in project design or scope; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; and unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor, and increased financing costs as a result of changes in market interest rates or as a result of construction schedule delays. in addition, with respect to the construction of new nuclear units and the operation of existing nuclear units, a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units or require additional safety measures at new and existing units. as a result of the major earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march 2011 and caused substantial damage to the nuclear generating units at the fukushima daiichi generating plant, the nrc is performing additional operational and safety reviews of nuclear facilities in the u.s., which could potentially impact future operations and capital requirements. if a traditional operating company or southern power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and there is no assurance that the traditional operating company will be able to recover such expenditures through regulated rates. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. construction delays also may result in the loss of otherwise available investment tax credits, production tax credits, and other tax incentives. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or southern power and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional operating companies' existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide reliable operations. i-20 table of contents index to financial statements the two largest construction projects currently underway in the southern company system are the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 and the construction of the kemper igcc. southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of and will operate plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (each, an approximately 1,100 mw ap1000 nuclear generating unit). georgia power owns 45.7% of the new units. the nrc certified the westinghouse electric company llc's design certification document, as amended (dcd), for the ap1000 reactor design, effective december 30, 2011, and issued combined cols on february 10, 2012. receipt of the cols allowed full construction to begin. separate groups of petitioners have filed petitions in the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit seeking judicial review of the nrc's issuance of the cols and certification of the dcd. additional technical and procedural challenges to the construction and licensing of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, at the federal and state level, are expected as construction proceeds. georgia power is required to file semi-annual vogtle construction monitoring (vcm) reports with the georgia psc by february 28 and august 31 of each year. georgia power's eighth vcm report requests approval for an additional $0.2 billion of construction capital costs incurred through december 31, 2012. if the projected certified construction capital costs to be borne by georgia power increase by 5% or the projected in-service dates are significantly extended, georgia power is required to seek an amendment to the plant vogtle units 3 and 4 certificate from the georgia psc. accordingly, the eighth vcm also requests an amendment to the certificate to increase the estimated in-service capital cost of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 to $4.8 billion and to extend the estimated in-service dates to fourth quarter 2017 and fourth quarter 2018 for plant vogtle units 3 and 4, respectively. associated financing costs during the construction period are estimated to total approximately $2.0 billion. georgia power, opc, meag power, and the city of dalton (collectively, the owners) and westinghouse electric company llc (westinghouse) and stone &amp; webster, inc. (stone &amp; webster) (collectively, the contractor) are involved in litigation regarding the costs associated with design changes to the dcd and delays in the timing of approval of the dcd and issuance of the cols, including the assertion by the contractor that the owners are responsible for these costs and that the contractor is entitled to further schedule extensions. georgia power has not agreed with either the proposed cost or schedule adjustments or that the owners have any responsibility for costs related to these issues. while litigation has commenced and georgia power intends to vigorously defend its positions, georgia power expects negotiations with the contractor to continue with respect to costs and schedule during which negotiations the parties may reach a mutually acceptable compromise of their positions. in addition, there are processes in place that are designed to assure compliance with the requirements specified in the dcd and cols, including rigorous inspections by southern nuclear and the nrc that occur throughout construction. license amendment requests are pending with the nrc to address a few non-safety significant deviations that were identified in the fourth quarter of 2012 with respect to the rebar design for the plant vogtle unit 3 nuclear island. various design and other issues are expected to arise as construction proceeds, which may result in additional license amendments or require other resolution. if any license amendment requests are not resolved in a timely manner, there may be delays in the project schedule that could result in increased costs either to the owners, the contractor, or both. as construction continues, additional delays in the fabrication and assembly of structural modules or the failure of such modules to meet applicable standards, or other issues may further impact project schedule and costs. additional claims by the contractor or georgia power (on behalf of the owners) are also likely to arise throughout construction. these claims may be resolved through formal and informal dispute resolution procedures under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement, but also may be resolved through litigation. in addition, mississippi power is constructing the kemper igcc. mississippi power and smepa are parties to an amended asset purchase agreement whereby smepa agreed to purchase a 15% undivided interest in the kemper igcc. the closing of this transaction is conditioned upon execution of a joint ownership and operating agreement, receipt of all construction permits, appropriate regulatory approvals, financing, and other conditions. the mississippi psc originally approved mississippi power's request for a cpcn for the construction of the kemper igcc in 2010. following judicial proceedings relating to its original order, the mississippi psc issued a detailed order (2012 mpsc order) confirming the cpcn for the kemper igcc. on april 26, 2012, the sierra club appealed the 2012 mpsc order to the chancery court of harrison county, mississippi (chancery court). on december 17, 2012, the chancery court affirmed the 2012 mpsc order which confirmed the issuance of the cpcn for the kemper igcc. on january 8, 2013, the sierra club filed an appeal of the chancery court's ruling with the mississippi supreme court. additional judicial challenges that may impact the kemper igcc are pending, including a challenge of the constitutionality of the baseload act that is pending before the mississippi supreme court. the certificated cost estimate of the kemper igcc included in the 2012 mpsc order was $2.4 billion, net of $245.3 million of grants awarded to the project by the doe under the clean coal power initiative round 2 (ccpi2) and excluding the cost of the i-21 table of contents index to financial statements lignite mine and equipment, the cost of the co 2 pipeline facilities, and financing costs related to the kemper igcc. the 2012 mpsc order approved a construction cost cap of up to $2.88 billion, with recovery of prudently-incurred costs subject to approval by the mississippi psc. exemptions from the cost cap included in the 2012 mississippi psc order included the cost of the lignite mine and equipment, the cost of the co 2 pipeline facilities, financing costs, and certain general exceptions, including change of law, force majeure, and beneficial capital (which exists when mississippi power demonstrates that the purpose and effect of the construction cost increase is to produce efficiencies that will result in a neutral or favorable effect on the ratepayers, relative to the original proposal for the cpcn). mississippi power's current cost estimate for the kemper igcc (net of the $245.3 million ccpi2 grant, and excluding the cost of the lignite mine and equipment, the cost of the co 2 pipeline facilities, financing costs, and certain general exceptions as contemplated in the 2012 mississippi psc order and the settlement agreement between mississippi power and the mississippi psc entered into on january 24, 2013 (settlement agreement) that must be specifically approved by the mississippi psc) is approximately $2.88 billion. while mississippi power continues to believe its cost estimate and schedule projection remain appropriate based on the current status of the project, it is possible that mississippi power could experience further cost increases and/or schedule delays with respect to the kemper igcc. certain factors have caused and may continue to cause the costs for the kemper igcc to increase and/or schedule delays to occur including, but not limited to, costs and productivity of labor, adverse weather conditions, shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor, contractor or supplier delay or non-performance under construction or other agreements, and unforeseen engineering problems. to the extent it becomes probable that costs beyond any permitted exceptions to the cost cap will exceed $2.88 billion or it becomes probable that the mississippi psc will disallow a portion of the costs relating to the kemper igcc, including certain general exceptions as contemplated in the 2012 mississippi psc order and the settlement agreement, charges to expense may occur and these charges could be material. the 2012 mpsc order included provisions relating to both mississippi power's recovery of financing costs during the course of construction of the kemper igcc and mississippi power's recovery of costs following the in-service date of the kemper igcc. on june 22, 2012, the mississippi psc denied mississippi power's proposed certificated new plant-a (cnp-a) rate schedule and the 2012 rate recovery filings submitted by mississippi power which provided for recovery of financing costs during 2012, pending a final ruling from the mississippi supreme court regarding the sierra club's appeal of the mississippi psc's issuance of the cpcn for the kemper igcc. on july 9, 2012, mississippi power appealed the mississippi psc's june 22, 2012 decision to the mississippi supreme court and requested interim rates under bond of $55.3 million. on january 24, 2013, mississippi power and the mississippi psc entered into a settlement agreement that (1) establishes the process for resolving matters regarding cost recovery related to the kemper igcc for the purpose of mitigating risks to mississippi power and its customers and expediting the regulatory process associated with future rate filings required under the settlement agreement and (2) resolves mississippi power's cnp-a rate appeal before the mississippi supreme court. on february 12, 2013, the mississippi supreme court granted mississippi power and the mississippi psc's joint filing for dismissal of mississippi power's appeal of the mississippi psc's june 22, 2012 decision. under the terms of the settlement agreement, mississippi power and the mississippi psc will follow certain agreed-upon regulatory procedures and schedules for resolving the cost recovery matters related to the kemper igcc. these procedures and schedules include the following: (1) mississippi power's filing within 30 days of the settlement agreement of a new request to increase rates in 2013 in an amount not to exceed a $172 million annual revenue requirement, based upon projected investment as of december 31, 2013, to be recorded to a regulatory liability to be used to mitigate rate impacts when the kemper igcc is placed in service (which filing for $172 million was made on january 25, 2013); (2) the mississippi psc's decision on that matter within 50 days of mississippi power's request; (3) mississippi power's collaboration with the mississippi public utilities staff to file with the mississippi psc within three months of the settlement agreement a rate recovery plan for the kemper igcc for the first seven years of its operation, along with a proposed revenue requirement under such plan for 2014 through 2020 (which filing was made on february 26, 2013 as described below); (4) the mississippi psc's decision on the rate recovery plan within four months of the filing; (5) mississippi power's agreement to limit the portion of prudently-incurred kemper igcc costs to be included in rate base to the $2.4 billion certificated cost estimate, plus costs related to the lignite mine and co 2 pipeline as well as any other costs permitted or determined to be excluded from the cost cap, provided that this limitation will not prevent mississippi power from securing alternate financing to recover any prudently-incurred kemper igcc costs, including financing costs and plant costs above the $2.4 billion certificated cost estimate, not otherwise recovered in any mississippi psc rate proceeding contemplated by the settlement agreement; and (6) the mississippi psc's completion of its prudence review of the kemper igcc costs incurred through 2012 within six months of the settlement agreement, an additional prudence review upon considering the seven-year rate plan for costs incurred through the most recent reporting period, and a final prudence review of the remaining project costs within six months of the kemper igcc's in-service date. i-22 table of contents index to financial statements legislation to authorize a multi-year rate plan and legislation to provide for alternate financing through securitization was passed in the mississippi legislature and was signed by the governor on february 26, 2013. mississippi power contemplates using securitization as provided in the legislation as its form of alternate financing for prudently-incurred kemper igcc costs, including financing costs and plant costs above the $2.4 billion certificated cost estimate, not otherwise recovered in any mississippi psc rate proceeding contemplated by the settlement agreement. on february 26, 2013, mississippi power in compliance with the settlement agreement, filed with the mississippi psc a rate recovery plan for the kemper igcc for 2014 through 2020, the first seven years of operation of the kemper igcc. the rate recovery plan proposes recovery of an annual revenue requirement of approximately $150 million of kemper igcc-related operational costs and rate base amounts, including plant costs equal to the $2.4 billion certificated cost estimate. approval of mississippi power's request to increase rates in 2013 to mitigate the rate impacts of the kemper igcc filed on january 25, 2013 is integral to the rate recovery plan as the proposed filing contemplates amortization of the regulatory liability to be used to mitigate rate impacts from 2014 through 2020, based on a fixed amortization schedule that requires approval by the mississippi psc. under the rate recovery plan filing, mississippi power proposes annual recovery to remain the same from 2014 through 2020 and, while it is the intent of mississippi power for the actual revenue requirement to equal the proposed revenue requirement for certain items, mississippi power proposes that the annual differences for those items through 2020 will be deferred, subject to accrual of carrying costs, and the cumulative balance will be reviewed at the end of the term of the settlement agreement by the mississippi psc for determination of the manner of the recovery. mississippi power proposes to secure recovery of prudently-incurred kemper igcc costs, including financing costs and plant costs above the $2.4 billion certificated cost estimate, not otherwise recovered in any mississippi psc rate proceeding contemplated by the settlement agreement to be provided for with alternate financing through securitization. the rate recovery necessary to recover the annual costs of securitization is proposed to be filed and begin after the kemper igcc is placed in service. under the terms of the settlement agreement, mississippi power has the right to terminate the settlement agreement if certain conditions, including the passage of multi-year rate plan legislation that is contemplated under the settlement agreement, are not met, if mississippi power is unable to secure alternate financing for any prudently-incurred kemper igcc costs not otherwise recovered in any mississippi psc rate proceeding contemplated by the settlement agreement, or if the mississippi psc fails to comply with the requirements of the settlement agreement. the ultimate outcome of these matters, including the determinations of prudency and the specific manner of recovery of prudently-incurred costs, is subject to further legislative and regulatory actions and cannot be determined at this time. financial, economic, and market risks the generation operations and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce southern company's, the traditional operating companies', and/or southern power's revenues and increase costs. the generation operations and energy marketing operations of the southern company system are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount received from the sale of power. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. in addition, the proportion of natural gas generation to the total fuel mix is likely to increase in the future. the southern company system attempts to mitigate risks associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the traditional operating companies' fuel cost recovery clauses or through ppas. among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, biomass, and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; seasonality; i-23 table of contents index to financial statements transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on demand for electricity and the demand for fuels; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. for the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. historically, the traditional operating companies from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel cost balances and deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such balances and deficits in the future. while the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through special rate provisions administered by the respective pscs, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred, and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating company and southern company. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment as well as the financial stability of the customers of the traditional operating companies and southern power. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in their applicable service territory and are thus impacted by the economic cycles of the customers each serves. any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets, both nationally and internationally, could negatively affect the financial stability of the customers and counterparties of the traditional operating companies and southern power. as territories served by the traditional operating companies and southern power experience economic downturns, energy consumption patterns may change and revenues may be negatively impacted. customer growth and customer usage can be affected by economic factors in the service territory of the traditional operating companies and southern power and elsewhere, including, for example, job and income growth, housing starts, new home prices, and the economic impact on customers of federal fiscal decisions. adverse economic conditions, a population decline, and/or business closings in the territory served by the traditional operating companies or southern power or slower than anticipated customer growth as a result of a recessionary economy or otherwise could also have a negative impact on revenues and could result in greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. as with other parts of the country, the territories served by the traditional operating companies and southern power have been impacted by the recent economic recession. the traditional operating companies have experienced residential and commercial sales that continue to be below historical trends due to the recent economic recession. southern power is expected to continue to experience reduced future revenues for its requirements customers due to the recent economic recession. the timing and extent of the recovery cannot be predicted. stronger or more rapid than expected economic growth, coupled with the effects of current and future environmental regulations applicable to the traditional operating companies or southern power, could impact the ability of the traditional operating companies and/or southern power to meet the energy demands of their customers. weaker or slower than expected economic growth could have a negative impact on revenues, could result in greater expense for uncollected customer balances, and could adversely impact the value of generation assets of the traditional operating companies and/or southern power. all of the factors discussed above could adversely affect southern company's, the traditional operating companies', and/or southern power's level of future net income. the operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. in addition, significant weather events, such as i-24 table of contents index to financial statements hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and droughts could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of the traditional operating companies and/or southern power and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity. electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, the traditional operating companies and southern power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash, and borrowing ability of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and/or southern power. in addition, volatile or significant weather events could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional operating companies and the generating facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power. the traditional operating companies and southern power have significant investments in the atlantic and gulf coast regions which could be subject to major storm activity. further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from weather events to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generating facilities and other property. in the event a traditional operating company experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc. while the traditional operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently-incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the applicable state psc or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company's and southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional operating company or affecting southern power's customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity for extended periods. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand for electricity could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company's or southern power's and southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. southern company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to southern company. southern company is a holding company and, as such, southern company has no operations of its own. substantially all of southern company's consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. southern company's ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to southern company. prior to funding southern company, southern company's subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions and financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. southern company's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide southern company with funds. a downgrade in the credit ratings of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power to post collateral or replace certain indebtedness. there are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any rating agency concludes that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power has deteriorated. changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if one or more rating agencies downgrade southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power, borrowing costs would increase, the pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, significant collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. i-25 table of contents index to financial statements the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. southern company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures. these risk management policies, limits, and procedures might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, derivative contracts entered for hedging purposes might not off-set the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. the factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. demand for power could decrease or fail to grow at expected rates, resulting in stagnant or reduced revenues, limited growth opportunities, and potentially stranded generation assets. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power each engage in a long-term planning process to determine the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. this planning process must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation facilities. inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including regional economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation assets while such assets are being constructed, the traditional operating companies may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of additional capacity and the traditional operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. under southern power's model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term ppas, southern power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. southern power may not be able to extend its existing ppas or to find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing ppas expire, or it may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and for southern company. demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power are currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed the southern company system's available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or southern power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation facilities. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. under southern power's long-term fixed price ppas, southern power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and for southern company. energy conservation and energy price increases could negatively impact financial results. customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy price, or individual conservation efforts. in addition, a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed or introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. conservation programs could impact the financial results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power in different ways. for example, if any traditional operating company is required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional operating company and southern company. i-26 table of contents index to financial statements certain of the traditional operating companies actively promote energy conservation programs, which have been approved by their respective state pscs. regulatory mechanisms have been established that provide for the recovery of costs related to such programs and lost revenues as a result of such programs. however, to the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand beyond what is anticipated, the value of generation assets of the traditional operating companies and/or southern power and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted and the traditional operating companies could be negatively impacted depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. in addition, the failure of those traditional operating companies who actively promote energy conservation programs to achieve the energy conservation targets established by their respective state pscs could negatively impact such traditional operating company's ability to recover costs and receive certain benefits related to such programs. additionally, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could also be negatively impacted if any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on their respective financial condition or results of operations. the businesses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. the inability of southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power is not able to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. in addition, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. each of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain events or market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or the ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn or uncertainty; bankruptcy or financial distress at an unrelated energy company, financial institution, or sovereign entity; capital markets volatility and disruption, either nationally or internationally; changes in tax policy such as dividend tax rates; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on southern company's facilities or unrelated energy companies' facilities; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust assets or may increase plan costs, which then could require significant additional funding. the performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust under southern company's pension and postretirement benefit plans and the assets held in trust to satisfy obligations to decommission alabama power's and georgia i-27 table of contents index to financial statements power's nuclear plants. the southern company system has significant obligations related to pension and postretirement benefit plans. alabama power and georgia power each hold significant assets in the nuclear decommissioning trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below projected return rates. a decline in the market value of these assets, as has been experienced in prior periods, may increase the funding requirements relating to benefit plan liabilities of the southern company system and alabama power's and georgia power's nuclear decommissioning obligations. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under pension and postretirement benefit plans of the southern company system; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. further, changes in demographics, including an increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. southern company and its subsidiaries are also facing rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than anticipated. if the southern company system is unable to successfully manage benefit plan assets and medical benefit costs and alabama power and georgia power are unable to successfully manage the nuclear decommissioning trust funds, results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. southern company may be unable to recover its investment in its leveraged leases if a lessee fails to profitably operate the leased assets. southern company has several leveraged lease agreements, with terms ranging up to 45 years, which relate to international and domestic energy generation, distribution, and transportation assets. southern company receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on long-term debt related to these investments. southern company reviews all important lease assumptions at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that a change in assumptions has occurred or may occur. with respect to southern company's investments in leveraged leases, the recovery of its investment is dependent on the profitable operation of the leased assets by the respective lessees. a significant deterioration in the performance of the leased asset could result in the impairment of the related lease receivable. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance. the financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and natural disasters, among other things, could have disruptive effects on insurance markets. the availability of insurance covering risks that southern company, the traditional operating companies, southern power, and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. further, while southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power maintain an amount of insurance protection that they consider adequate, there is no guarantee that the insurance policies selected by them will cover all of the potential exposures or the actual amount of loss incurred. any losses not covered by insurance could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis financial condition and liquidity "market price risk" of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant's financial statements under "financial instruments" in item 8 herein. see also note 10 to the financial statements of southern company, alabama power, and georgia power, note 9 to the financial statements of gulf power and mississippi power, and note 8 to the financial statements of southern power in item 8 herein. ii-4 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management's discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. utility regulatory, legislative, and litigation risks southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including rates and charges, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices, and the operation of fossil-fuel, nuclear, hydroelectric, solar, and biomass generating facilities, as well as transmission and distribution facilities. for example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by southern power company must be approved by the ferc. these wholesale rates could be affected absent the ability to conduct business pursuant to ferc market-based rate authority. additionally, the respective state pscs must approve the traditional operating companies' requested rates for retail customers. while the retail rates of the traditional operating companies are designed to provide for the full recovery of costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital), there can be no assurance that a state psc, in a future rate proceeding, will not attempt to alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is sought or to modify the current authorized rate of return. southern company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals, and certificates have been obtained for their respective existing operations and that their respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs. the southern company system's costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with current and future environmental laws, including laws and regulations designed to address air quality, water, coal combustion residuals, global climate change, renewable energy standards, and other matters and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and/or southern power. the southern company system is subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to adequately protect the environment. compliance with these environmental requirements requires the traditional operating companies and southern power to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at substantially all of their respective facilities. these expenditures are significant and southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power expect that they will continue to be significant in the future. through 2013, the traditional operating companies had invested approximately $9.4 billion in environmental capital retrofit projects to comply with these requirements. the epa has adopted and is in the process of implementing regulations governing the emission of nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, fine particulate matter, mercury, and other air pollutants under the clean air act through the national ambient air quality standards, cair, the mats rule, and other air quality regulations and is in the process of considering additional revisions. in addition, the epa has proposed additional regulations governing cooling water intake structures and has proposed revisions to the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants under the clean water act. the epa is also evaluating whether additional regulation of coal combustion i-14 table of contents index to financial statements residuals (including coal ash and gypsum) is merited under federal solid and hazardous waste laws. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to air quality, water, coal combustion residuals, global climate change, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to the traditional operating companies and/or southern power. in addition, the epa currently regulates emissions of carbon dioxide (co 2 ) and other greenhouse gases under the prevention of significant deterioration preconstruction permit program and the title v operating permit program of the clean air act, which both apply to power plants and other commercial and industrial facilities. on january 8, 2014, the epa published re-proposed regulations to establish standards of performance for greenhouse gas emissions from new fossil fuel steam electric generating units and is expected to propose standards of performance for modified, reconstructed, and existing units during 2014. the southern company system's ultimate environmental compliance strategy, including potential unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures will be affected by the final requirements of new or revised environmental regulations ; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules; the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emissions allowances; and the fuel mix of the electric utilities. compliance costs may arise from existing unit retirements, installation of additional environmental controls, upgrades to the transmission system, and adding or changing fuel sources for certain existing units. additionally, if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the epa has filed civil actions against alabama power and georgia power and issued notices of violation to gulf power and mississippi power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. an adverse outcome in any of these matters could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. compliance costs related to federal and state environmental statutes and regulations could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be fully recovered on a timely basis. environmental compliance spending over the next several years may differ materially from the amounts estimated. the timing, specific requirements, and estimated costs could change as environmental statutes and regulations are adopted or modified. such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates or long-term wholesale agreements for the traditional operating companies or market-based rates for southern power. further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could negatively affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as air quality and water standards, has increased generally throughout the u.s. in particular, personal injury, property damage, and other claims for damages alleged to have been caused by co 2 and other emissions, coal combustion residuals, and alleged exposure to hazardous materials, and/or requests for injunctive relief in connection with such matters, have become more frequent. the ultimate cost impact of proposed and final legislation and regulations and litigation are likely to result in significant and additional costs and could result in additional operating restrictions. the net income of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be negatively impacted by changes in regulations related to transmission planning processes and competition in the wholesale electric markets. the traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. a small percentage of transmission revenues are collected through the wholesale electric tariff but the majority of transmission revenues are collected through retail rates. new ferc rules pertaining to regional transmission planning and cost allocation present challenges to transmission planning and the wholesale market structure in the southeast. the key impacts of these new rules include: possible disruption of the integrated resource planning processes within the states in the southern company system's service territory; delays and additional processes for developing transmission plans; and possible impacts on state jurisdiction of approving, certifying, and pricing of new transmission facilities. the ferc rules related to transmission are intended to spur the development of new transmission infrastructure to promote and i-15 table of contents index to financial statements encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply as well as facilitate competition in the wholesale market by providing more choices to wholesale power customers. in addition to the impacts on transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations also impact power hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges as well as over-the-counter. finally, technology changes in the power and fuel industries continue to create significant impacts to wholesale transaction cost structures. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power cannot predict the impact of these and other such developments, nor can they predict the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond their control. the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be adversely affected by these and other changes. the traditional operating companies and southern power could be subject to higher costs as a result of implementing and maintaining compliance with the north american electric reliability corporation mandatory reliability standards along with possible associated penalties for non-compliance. owners and operators of bulk power systems, including the traditional operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional operating companies, southern power, and southern company to higher operating costs and increased capital expenditures. if any traditional operating company or southern power is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, such traditional operating company or southern power could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. operational risks the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if the subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries' electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities. operating these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error or failure of equipment or processes, particularly with older generating facilities; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks; fuel or material supply interruptions; compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards; implementation of technologies with which the southern company system is developing experience; information technology system failure; cyber intrusion; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. in addition, an investment in a subsidiary with such generation, transmission, or distribution facilities could be adversely impacted. i-16 table of contents index to financial statements operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health, regulatory, natural disasters, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of the nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units. the six existing units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 mws, or 8.1%, of the southern company system's generation capacity as of december 31, 2013. in addition, southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. due solely to the increase in nuclear generating capacity, the below risks are expected to increase incrementally once plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are operational. nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health, and financial risks such as: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of spent nuclear fuel; uncertainties with respect to the on-site storage of and the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of licensed lives and the ability to maintain and anticipate adequate reserves for decommissioning; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the nuclear operations of alabama power and georgia power or those of other commercial nuclear facility owners in the united states; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; significant capital expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair of these facilities, including repairs and upgrades required by the nrc; the threat of a possible terrorist attack, including a potential cyber security attack; and the potential impact of a natural disaster. alabama power and georgia power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage, including statutorily required nuclear incident insurance, to minimize the potential financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance with nrc licensing and safety-related requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. as a result of the major earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march 2011 and caused substantial damage to the nuclear generating units at the fukushima daiichi generating plant, the nrc is performing additional operational and safety reviews of nuclear facilities in the u.s., which could potentially impact future operations and capital requirements. the final form and the resulting impact of any changes to safety requirements for nuclear reactors will be dependent on further review and action by the nrc and cannot be determined at this time. nrc orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, although alabama power, georgia power, and southern company have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at the southern company system nuclear plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit, prohibit, or require significant changes to the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit that could result in substantial costs. moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the united states could require alabama power and georgia power to make material contributory payments. in addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict. i-17 table of contents index to financial statements physical or cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, could impact the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. the traditional operating companies and southern power face the risk of physical and cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, against their respective generation facilities, the transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport power, and their information technology systems and network infrastructure, which could negatively impact the ability of the traditional operating companies or southern power to generate, transport, and deliver power, or otherwise operate their respective facilities in the most efficient manner or at all. the traditional operating companies and southern power operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of an interconnected regional grid. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the traditional operating companies and southern power collect and retain sensitive information including personal identification information about customers and employees and other confidential information. the traditional operating companies and southern power face on-going threats to their assets. despite the implementation of robust security measures, all assets are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error or physical or cyber attacks. if the traditional operating companies' or southern power's assets were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached and were not recovered in a timely way, the traditional operating companies or southern power may be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. the theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data may also subject the applicable traditional operating company or southern power to penalties and claims from third parties. these events could negatively affect the financial results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power through lost revenues, costs to recover and repair damage, and costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks. the traditional operating companies and southern power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and biomass, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate their respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for a portion of their electric generating capacity. each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional operating companies. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional operating companies. in addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through rates. in addition, the traditional operating companies and southern power to a greater extent have become more dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. in many instances, the cost of purchased power for the traditional operating companies and southern power is influenced by natural gas prices. historically, natural gas prices have been more volatile than prices of other fuels. in recent years, domestic natural gas prices have been depressed by robust supplies, including production from shale gas, as well as lower demand. these market conditions, together with additional regulation of coal-fired generating units, have increased the traditional operating companies' reliance on natural gas-fired generating units. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane or a pipeline failure. the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility may have a material impact on the supply and cost of natural gas. in addition, world market conditions for fuels can impact the cost and availability of natural gas, coal, and uranium. i-18 table of contents index to financial statements the revenues of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, or the failure to renew the ppas, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power's generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas. in addition, the traditional operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. even though southern power and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit evaluation process and contractual protections, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. although these credit evaluations and contractual protections take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than predicted. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. if a ppa is not renewed, a replacement ppa cannot be assured. changes in technology may make southern company's electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power less competitive. a key element of the business models of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells. advances in technology could reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost effective distributed generation. broader use of distributed generation by retail electric customers may also result from customers' changing perceptions of the merits of utilizing existing generation technology or tax or other economic incentives. additionally, there can be no assurance that a state psc or legislature will not attempt to modify certain aspects of the traditional operating companies' business as a result of these advances in technology. if these technologies became cost competitive and achieved sufficient scale, the market share of the traditional operating companies and southern power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. if state pscs fail to adjust rates to reflect the impact of any changes in loads, increasing self-generation, and the growth of distributed generation, the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of southern company and the traditional operating companies could be materially adversely affected. acquisitions and dispositions may not result in anticipated benefits and may present risks not originally contemplated, which may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries have made significant acquisitions and dispositions in the past and may in the future make additional acquisitions and dispositions. southern power, in particular, continually seeks opportunities to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions or sales of assets. these transactions are intended to, but may not, result in the generation of cash or income, the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, or the reduction of risk. these transactions may also affect the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. these transactions also involve risks, and southern company and its subsidiaries cannot ensure that: any acquisitions would result in an increase in income or provide an adequate return of capital or other anticipated benefits; any acquisitions would be successfully integrated into the acquiring company's operations and internal controls; i-19 table of contents index to financial statements the due diligence conducted prior to an acquisition would uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure or that the acquiring company will appropriately quantify the exposure from known risks; any disposition would not result in decreased earnings, revenue, or cash flow; use of cash for acquisitions would not adversely affect cash available for capital expenditures and other uses; or any dispositions, investments, or acquisitions would not have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, results of operations, or financial condition of southern company or its subsidiaries. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact southern company's and its subsidiaries' results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges such as lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, especially with the workforce needs associated with plant vogtle units 3 and 4 and kemper igcc construction. the southern company system's costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs, and safety costs, may rise. failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect southern company and its subsidiaries' ability to manage and operate their businesses. if southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies, are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. construction risks southern company, the traditional operating companies, and/or southern power may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. also, existing facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power require ongoing capital expenditures, including those to meet environmental standards. general the businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, including those to meet environmental standards. certain of the traditional operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. the southern company system intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, expanding existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. these types of projects are long-term in nature and in some cases include the development and construction of facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. the completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; labor costs; varied productivity and production; work stoppages; contractor or supplier delay or non-performance under construction or other agreements or non-performance by other major participants in construction projects; delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, and other regulatory authorizations; delays associated with start-up activities, including major equipment failure, system integration, and operations, and/or unforeseen engineering problems; i-20 table of contents index to financial statements impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; the outcome of legal challenges to regulatory approvals; failure to construct in accordance with licensing requirements; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; adverse weather conditions; other unforeseen engineering problems; changes in project design or scope; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; and unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor, and increased financing costs as a result of changes in market interest rates or as a result of construction schedule delays. in addition, with respect to the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 and the operation of existing nuclear units, a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units or require additional safety measures at new and existing units, including any which may be required as a result of the major earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march 2011 and caused substantial damage to the nuclear generating units at the fukushima daiichi generating plant, which could potentially impact future operations and capital requirements. the final form and the resulting impact of any changes to safety requirements for nuclear reactors will be dependent on further review and action by the nrc and cannot be determined at this time. if a traditional operating company or southern power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and there is no assurance that the traditional operating company will be able to recover such expenditures through regulated rates. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. construction delays could result in the loss of otherwise available investment tax credits, production tax credits, and other tax incentives. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or southern power and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional operating companies' existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide reliable operations. the two largest construction projects currently underway in the southern company system are the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 and the kemper igcc. i-21 table of contents index to financial statements plant vogtle units 3 and 4 construction southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of and will operate plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (each, an approximately 1,100 mw ap1000 nuclear generating unit). georgia power owns 45.7% of the new units. the nrc certified the westinghouse electric company llc's design certification document, as amended (dcd), for the ap1000 reactor design, effective december 30, 2011, and issued combined cols in february 2012. receipt of the cols allowed full construction to begin. there have been technical and procedural challenges to the construction and licensing of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 at the federal and state level, and additional challenges are expected as construction proceeds. georgia power is required to file semi-annual vogtle construction monitoring (vcm) reports with the georgia psc by february 28 and august 31 of each year. if the projected certified construction capital costs to be borne by georgia power increase by 5% or the projected in-service dates are significantly extended, georgia power is required to seek an amendment to the plant vogtle units 3 and 4 certificate from the georgia psc. accordingly, georgia power's eighth vcm report requested an amendment to the certificate to increase the estimated in-service capital cost of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 from $4.4 billion to $4.8 billion and to extend the estimated in-service dates to fourth quarter 2017 and fourth quarter 2018 for plant vogtle units 3 and 4, respectively. on september 3, 2013, the georgia psc approved a stipulation entered into by georgia power and the georgia psc staff to waive the requirement to amend the plant vogtle units 3 and 4 certificate, until the commercial operation date of plant vogtle unit 3, or earlier if deemed appropriate by the georgia psc and georgia power. in accordance with the georgia integrated resource planning act, any costs incurred by georgia power in excess of the certified amount will not be included in rate base, unless shown to be reasonable and prudent. in addition, financing costs on any excess construction-related costs potentially would be subject to recovery for allowance for funds used during construction instead of the nuclear construction cost recovery tariff. georgia power, opc, meag power, and dalton (collectively, the owners) and westinghouse electric company llc (westinghouse) and stone &amp; webster, inc. (stone &amp; webster) (collectively, the contractor) are involved in litigation regarding the costs associated with design changes to the dcd and delays in the timing of approval of the dcd and issuance of the cols, including the assertion by the contractor that the owners are responsible for these costs and that the contractor is entitled to further schedule extensions. the portion of the additional costs claimed by the contractor that would be attributable to georgia power (based on georgia power's ownership interest) with respect to these issues is approximately $425 million (in 2008 dollars). georgia power has not agreed with either the proposed cost or schedule adjustments or that the owners have any responsibility for costs related to these issues. while litigation has commenced and georgia power intends to vigorously defend its positions, georgia power also expects negotiations with the contractor to continue with respect to costs and schedule during which negotiations the parties may reach a mutually acceptable compromise of their positions. processes are in place that are designed to assure compliance with the requirements specified in the dcd and cols, including inspections by southern nuclear and the nrc that occur throughout construction. as a result of such compliance processes, certain license amendment requests have been filed and approved or are pending before the nrc. various design and other licensed-based compliance issues are expected to arise as construction proceeds, which may result in additional license amendments or require other resolution. if any license amendment requests or other licensing-based compliance issues are not resolved in a timely manner, there may be delays in the project schedule that could result in increased costs either to the owners, the contractor, or both. as construction continues, the risk remains that additional challenges in the fabrication, assembly, delivery, and installation of structural modules, delays in the receipt of the remaining permits necessary for the operation of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, or other issues could arise and may further impact project schedule and cost. additional claims by the contractor or georgia power (on behalf of the owners) are also likely to arise throughout construction. these claims may be resolved through formal and informal dispute resolution procedures under the engineering, procurement, and construction agreement for plant vogtle units 3 and 4, but also may be resolved through litigation. kemper igcc construction in april 2012, the mississippi psc issued a detailed order confirming the cpcn originally approved by the mississippi psc in 2010 authorizing the acquisition, construction, and operation of the kemper igcc (2012 mpsc cpcn order), which the sierra club appealed to the chancery court of harrison county, mississippi (chancery court). in december 2012, the chancery court affirmed the 2012 mpsc cpcn order. on january 8, 2013, the sierra club filed an appeal of the chancery i-22 table of contents index to financial statements court's ruling with the mississippi supreme court. the ultimate outcome of the cpcn challenge cannot be determined at this time. the certificated cost estimate of the kemper igcc included in the 2012 mpsc cpcn order was $2.4 billion, net of $245 million of grants awarded to the project by the u.s. department of energy under the clean coal power initiative round 2 (doe grants) and excluding the cost of the lignite mine and equipment, the cost of the co 2 pipeline facilities, and allowance for funds used during construction (afudc) related to the kemper igcc. the 2012 mpsc cpcn order approved a construction cost cap of up to $2.88 billion, with recovery of prudently-incurred costs subject to approval by the mississippi psc. exceptions to the $2.88 billion cost cap include the cost of the lignite mine and equipment, the cost of the co 2 pipeline facilities, afudc, and certain general exceptions, including change of law, force majeure, and beneficial capital (which exists when mississippi power demonstrates that the purpose and effect of the construction cost increase is to produce efficiencies that will result in a neutral or favorable effect on the ratepayers, relative to the original proposal for the cpcn) (cost cap exceptions), as contemplated in the settlement agreement between mississippi power and the mississippi psc entered into on january 24, 2013 (settlement agreement) and the 2012 mpsc cpcn order. recovery of the cost cap exception amounts remains subject to review and approval by the mississippi psc. the kemper igcc was originally scheduled to be placed in service in may 2014 and is currently scheduled to be placed in service in the fourth quarter 2014. mississippi power does not intend to seek any rate recovery or joint owner contributions for any related costs that exceed the $2.88 billion cost cap, excluding the cost cap exceptions and net of the doe grants. through december 31, 2013, southern company and mississippi power have recorded pre-tax charges to income for revisions to the cost estimate of $1.2 billion ($729 million after tax). the revised cost estimates through december 31, 2013 reflect increased labor costs, piping and other material costs, start-up costs, decreases in construction labor productivity, the change in the in-service date, and an increase in the contingency for risks associated with start-up activities. mississippi power could experience further construction cost increases and/or schedule extensions with respect to the kemper igcc as a result of factors including, but not limited to, labor costs and productivity, adverse weather conditions, shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor, contractor or supplier delay, or non-performance under construction or other agreements. furthermore, mississippi power could also experience further schedule extensions associated with start-up activities for this "first-of-its-kind" technology, including major equipment failure, system integration, and operations, and/or unforeseen engineering problems, which would result in further cost increases and could result in the loss of certain tax benefits related to bonus depreciation. in subsequent periods, any further changes in the estimated costs to complete construction of the kemper igcc subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap will be reflected in southern company's and mississippi power's statements of income and these changes could be material. on january 24, 2013, mississippi power entered into the settlement agreement with the mississippi psc that, among other things, establishes the process for resolving matters regarding cost recovery related to the kemper igcc. under the settlement agreement, mississippi power agreed to limit the portion of prudently-incurred kemper igcc costs to be included in retail rate base to the $2.4 billion certificated cost estimate, plus the cost cap exceptions, but excluding afudc, and any other costs permitted or determined to be excluded from the $2.88 billion cost cap by the mississippi psc. the settlement agreement also allows mississippi power to secure alternate financing for costs that are not otherwise recovered in any mississippi psc rate proceedings contemplated by the settlement agreement. legislation to authorize a multi-year rate plan and legislation to provide for alternate financing through securitization of up to $1.0 billion of prudently-incurred costs was enacted into law on february 26, 2013. mississippi power intends to securitize (1) prudently-incurred costs in excess of the certificated cost estimate and up to the $2.88 billion cost cap, net of the doe grants and excluding the cost cap exceptions, (2) accrued afudc, and (3) other prudently-incurred costs as approved by the mississippi psc. the rate recovery necessary to recover the annual costs of securitization is expected to be filed and become effective after the kemper igcc is placed in service and following completion of the mississippi psc's final prudence review of costs for the kemper igcc. the settlement agreement provides that mississippi power may terminate the settlement agreement if certain conditions are not met, if mississippi power is unable to secure alternate financing for any prudently-incurred kemper igcc costs not otherwise recovered in any mississippi psc rate proceeding contemplated by the settlement agreement, or if the mississippi psc fails to comply with the requirements of the settlement agreement. mississippi power continues to work with the mississippi psc and the mississippi public utilities staff to implement the procedural schedules set forth in the settlement agreement and additional variations to the schedule are likely. i-23 table of contents index to financial statements consistent with the settlement agreement, on march 5, 2013, the mississippi psc issued an order (2013 mpsc rate order), approving retail rate increases of 15% effective march 19, 2013 and 3% effective january 1, 2014, which collectively are designed to collect $156 million annually beginning in 2014. amounts collected through these rates are being recorded as a regulatory liability to be used to mitigate customer rate impacts after the kemper igcc is placed in service. on march 21, 2013, a legal challenge to the 2013 mpsc rate order was filed by thomas a. blanton with the mississippi supreme court, which remains pending against mississippi power and the mississippi psc. also consistent with the settlement agreement, on february 26, 2013, mississippi power filed with the mississippi psc a rate recovery plan for the kemper igcc for the first seven years of its operation, along with a proposed revenue requirement under such plan for 2014 through 2020 (seven-year rate plan). on march 22, 2013, mississippi power, in compliance with the 2013 mpsc rate order, filed a revision to the seven-year rate plan with the mississippi psc for the kemper igcc for cost recovery through 2020, which is still under review by the mississippi psc. the revenue requirements set forth in the seven-year rate plan assume the sale of a 15% undivided interest in the kemper igcc to smepa and utilization of bonus depreciation as provided by the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, which currently requires that the kemper igcc be placed in service in 2014. in 2014, mississippi power plans to amend the seven-year rate plan to reflect changes including the revised in-service date, the change in expected benefits relating to tax credits, various other revenue requirement items, and other tax matters, which include ensuring compliance with the normalization requirements of the internal revenue code. the impact of these revisions for the average annual retail revenue requirement is estimated to be approximately $35 million through 2020. the amendment to the seven-year rate plan is also expected to reflect rate mitigation options identified by mississippi power that, if approved by the mississippi psc, would result in no change to the total customer rate impacts contemplated in the original seven-year rate plan. further cost increases and/or schedule extensions with respect to the kemper igcc could have an adverse impact on the seven-year rate plan, such as the inability to recover items considered as cost cap exceptions, potential costs subject to securitization financing in excess of $1.0 billion, and the loss of certain tax benefits related to bonus depreciation. while the kemper igcc is scheduled to be placed in service in the fourth quarter 2014, any schedule extension beyond 2014 would result in the loss of tax benefits related to bonus depreciation. the estimated value of the bonus depreciation tax benefits to retail customers is approximately $200 million. loss of these tax benefits would require further adjustment to the seven-year rate plan and approval by the mississippi psc to ensure compliance with the normalization requirements of the internal revenue code. in the event that the mississippi psc does not approve or mississippi power withdraws the seven-year rate plan, mississippi power would seek rate recovery through an alternate means, which could include a traditional rate case. the mississippi psc's prudence review of kemper igcc costs incurred through march 31, 2013, as provided for in the settlement agreement, is expected to occur in the second quarter 2014. a final review of all costs incurred after march 31, 2013 is expected to be completed within six months of the kemper igcc's in-service date. furthermore, regardless of any prudence determinations made during the construction and start-up period, the mississippi psc has the right to make a final prudence determination after the kemper igcc has been placed in service. the ultimate outcome of these matters, including the resolution of legal challenges, determinations of prudency, and the specific manner of recovery of prudently-incurred costs, is subject to further regulatory actions and cannot be determined at this time. financial, economic, and market risks the generation operations and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce southern company's, the traditional operating companies', and/or southern power's revenues and increase costs. the generation operations and energy marketing operations of the southern company system are subject to changes in power prices and fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount received from the sale of power. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. the southern company system attempts to mitigate risks associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the traditional operating companies' fuel cost recovery clauses or through ppas. among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, biomass, and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power, including associated transportation costs, and i-24 table of contents index to financial statements supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on demand for electricity and the demand for fuels; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. for the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. historically, the traditional operating companies from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel cost balances and deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such balances and deficits in the future. while the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through special rate provisions administered by the respective pscs, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred, and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating company and southern company. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, customer behaviors, and adoption patterns of technologies by the customers of the traditional operating companies and southern power. the consumption and use of energy are fundamentally linked to economic activity. this relationship is affected over time by changes in the economy, customer behaviors, and technologies. any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets, both nationally and internationally, could negatively affect the financial stability of customers and counterparties of the traditional operating companies and southern power. additionally, any economic downturn could negatively impact customer growth and usage per customer, thus reducing the sales of electricity and revenues. outside of economic disruptions, changes in customer behaviors in response to changing conditions and preferences or changes in the adoption of technologies could affect the relationship of economic activity to the consumption of electricity. on the customer behavior side, federal and state programs exist to influence how customers use energy, and several of the traditional operating companies have psc mandates to promote energy efficiency. the adoption of technology by customers can have both positive and negative impacts on sales. many new technologies utilize less energy than in the past. however, new electric technologies such as electric vehicles can create additional demand. the southern company system's planning processes incorporate estimates of the impacts of changes in customer behavior, state and federal programs, psc mandates, and technology, but upside and downside risks remain. all of the factors discussed above could adversely affect southern company's, the traditional operating companies', and/or southern power's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. i-25 table of contents index to financial statements the operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. in addition, significant weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, and winter storms, could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of the traditional operating companies and/or southern power and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity. electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, the traditional operating companies and southern power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash, and borrowing ability of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and/or southern power. in addition, volatile or significant weather events could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional operating companies and the generating facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power. the traditional operating companies and southern power have significant investments in the atlantic and gulf coast regions which could be subject to major storm activity. further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of damages from weather events to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured damages to its generating facilities and other property. in the event a traditional operating company experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc. while the traditional operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently-incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any denial by the applicable state psc or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company's and southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional operating company or affecting southern power's customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity for extended periods. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand for electricity could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company's or southern power's and southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. southern company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to southern company. southern company is a holding company and, as such, southern company has no operations of its own. substantially all of southern company's consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. southern company's ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to southern company. prior to funding southern company, southern company's subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions and financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. southern company's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide southern company with funds. a downgrade in the credit ratings of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power company could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power company to post collateral or replace certain indebtedness. there are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power company, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power company could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any rating agency concludes that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power company has deteriorated. changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if one or more rating agencies downgrade southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power i-26 table of contents index to financial statements company, borrowing costs would increase, the pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, significant collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. southern company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures. these risk management policies, limits, and procedures might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, derivative contracts entered for hedging purposes might not off-set the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. the factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. demand for power could decrease or fail to grow at expected rates, resulting in stagnant or reduced revenues, limited growth opportunities, and potentially stranded generation assets. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power each engage in a long-term planning process to determine the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. this planning process must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation facilities. inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including regional economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation assets while such assets are being constructed, the traditional operating companies may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of additional capacity and the traditional operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. under southern power's model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term ppas, southern power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. southern power and/or the traditional operating companies may not be able to extend existing ppas or to find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing ppas expire, or it may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and for southern company. demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation and transmission facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power are currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed the southern company system's available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or southern power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation and transmission facilities. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover some or all of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. under southern power's long-term fixed price ppas, southern power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and for southern company. energy conservation and energy price increases could negatively impact financial results. customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy price, or individual conservation efforts, which could negatively impact the results of operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. in addition, a number of regulatory and i-27 table of contents index to financial statements legislative bodies have proposed or introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. conservation programs could impact the financial results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power in different ways. for example, if any traditional operating company is required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional operating company and southern company. certain of the traditional operating companies actively promote energy conservation programs, which have been approved by their respective state pscs. for certain of such traditional operating companies, regulatory mechanisms have been established that provide for the recovery of costs related to such programs and lost revenues as a result of such programs. however, to the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand beyond what is anticipated, the value of generation assets of the traditional operating companies and/or southern power and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted and the traditional operating companies could be negatively impacted depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. in addition, the failure of those traditional operating companies who actively promote energy conservation programs to achieve the energy conservation targets established by their respective state pscs could negatively impact such traditional operating company's ability to recover costs and lost revenues as a result of such progress and ability to receive certain benefits related to such programs. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on their respective financial condition or results of operations. the businesses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. the inability of southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power is not able to access capital at competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. in addition, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. each of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain events or market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or the ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn or uncertainty; bankruptcy or financial distress at an unrelated energy company, financial institution, or sovereign entity; capital markets volatility and disruption, either nationally or internationally; changes in tax policy such as dividend tax rates; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on southern company's facilities or unrelated energy companies' facilities; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. in addition, georgia power's ability to make future borrowings through its term loan credit facility with the federal financing bank is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, as well as certification of compliance with the requirements of the i-28 table of contents index to financial statements loan guarantee program under title xvii of the energy policy act of 2005, including accuracy of project-related representations and warranties, delivery of updated project-related information and evidence of compliance with the prevailing wage requirements of the davis-bacon act of 1931, as amended, compliance with the cargo preference act of 1954, and certification from the doe's consulting engineer that proceeds of the advances are used to reimburse certain costs of construction relating to plant vogtle units 3 and 4 that are eligible for financing under the title xvii loan guarantee program. market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust assets or may increase plan costs, which then could require significant additional funding. the performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust under southern company's pension and postretirement benefit plans and the assets held in trust to satisfy obligations to decommission alabama power's and georgia power's nuclear plants. the southern company system has significant obligations related to pension and postretirement benefit plans. alabama power and georgia power each hold significant assets in the nuclear decommissioning trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below projected return rates. a decline in the market value of these assets may increase the funding requirements relating to benefit plan liabilities of the southern company system and alabama power's and georgia power's nuclear decommissioning obligations. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under pension and postretirement benefit plans of the southern company system; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. further, changes in demographics, including an increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. southern company and its subsidiaries are also facing rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than anticipated. if the southern company system is unable to successfully manage benefit plan assets and medical benefit costs and alabama power and georgia power are unable to successfully manage the nuclear decommissioning trust funds, results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. southern company may be unable to recover its investment in its leveraged leases if a lessee fails to profitably operate the leased assets. southern company has several leveraged lease agreements, with terms ranging up to 45 years, which relate to international and domestic energy generation, distribution, and transportation assets. southern company receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on long-term debt related to these investments. southern company reviews all important lease assumptions at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that a change in assumptions has occurred or may occur. with respect to southern company's investments in leveraged leases, the recovery of its investment is dependent on the profitable operation of the leased assets by the respective lessees. a significant deterioration in the performance of the leased asset could result in the impairment of the related lease receivable. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance. the financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and natural disasters, among other things, could have disruptive effects on insurance markets. the availability of insurance covering risks that southern company, the traditional operating companies, southern power, and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. further, while southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power maintain an amount of insurance protection that they consider adequate, there is no guarantee that the insurance policies selected by them will cover all of the potential exposures or the actual amount of loss incurred. any losses not covered by insurance could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis financial condition and liquidity "market price risk" of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant's financial statements under "financial instruments" in item 8 herein. see also note 10 to the financial statements of southern company, alabama power, and georgia power, note 9 to the financial statements of gulf power and mississippi power, and note 8 to the financial statements of southern power in item 8 herein. ii-3 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management's discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. utility regulatory, legislative, and litigation risks southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including rates and charges, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies and practices, physical security and cyber-security policies and practices, and the construction and operation of fossil-fuel, nuclear, hydroelectric, solar, wind, and biomass generating facilities, as well as transmission and distribution facilities. for example, the respective state pscs must approve the traditional operating companies' requested rates for retail customers. the traditional operating companies seek to recover their costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital) through their retail rates, and there can be no assurance that a state psc, in a future rate proceeding, will not alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is allowed or modify the current authorized rate of return. additionally, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by southern power must be approved by the ferc. these wholesale rates could be affected by changes to southern power's ability to conduct business pursuant to ferc market-based rate authority. the ferc rules related to retaining the authority to sell electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale markets are important for the traditional operating companies and southern power if they are to remain competitive in the wholesale markets in which they operate. the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs. the southern company system's costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with current and future environmental laws, including laws and regulations designed to address air quality, water, ccr, global climate change, renewable energy standards, and other matters and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and/or southern power. the southern company system is subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, and the management and disposal of waste in order to adequately protect the environment. compliance with these environmental requirements requires the traditional operating companies and southern power to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at substantially all of their respective facilities. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power expect that these expenditures will continue to be significant in the future. through december 31, 2014, the traditional operating companies had invested approximately $10.6 billion in environmental capital retrofit projects to comply with these requirements. the epa has adopted and is in the process of implementing regulations governing the emission of nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, fine particulate matter, mercury, and other air pollutants under the clean air act through the national ambient air quality standards, csapr, the mats rule, and other air quality regulations and is in the process of considering additional revisions. in addition, the epa has recently finalized regulations governing cooling water intake structures and has proposed revisions to the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants and the definition of waters of the united states under the clean water act. the epa has also recently finalized regulations governing the disposal of ccr, including coal ash and gypsum, in landfills and surface impoundments at active generating power plants. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to air quality, water, ccr, global climate change, endangered species, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to the traditional operating companies and/or southern power. in addition, the epa has published three sets of proposed standards that would limit co 2 emissions from new, existing, and i-17 table of contents index to financial statements modified or reconstructed fossil-fuel-fired electric generating units. on january 8, 2014, the epa published proposed standards for new units, and, on june 18, 2014, the epa published proposed standards governing existing units, known as the clean power plan, and separate standards governing co 2 emissions from modified and reconstructed units. the epa's proposed clean power plan establishes guidelines for states to develop plans to address co 2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. the epa's proposed guidelines establish state-specific interim and final co 2 emission rate goals to be achieved between 2020 and 2029 and in 2030 and thereafter. the proposed guidelines and standards could result in operational restrictions and material compliance costs, including capital expenditures, which could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions. the southern company system filed comments on the epa's proposed clean power plan on december 1, 2014. these comments addressed legal and technical issues in addition to providing a preliminary estimated cost of complying with the proposed guidelines utilizing one of the epa's compliance scenarios. costs associated with this proposal could be significant to the utility industry and the southern company system. however, the ultimate financial and operational impact of the proposed clean power plan on the southern company system cannot be determined at this time and will depend upon numerous known and unknown factors. the southern company system's ultimate environmental compliance strategy, including potential unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures will be affected by the final requirements of new or revised environmental regulations; the time periods over which compliance with regulations is required; individual state implementation of regulations, as applicable; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules and any additional rulemaking activities in response to legal challenges and court decisions; the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emissions allowances; the impact of future changes in generation and emissions-related technology and costs; and the fuel mix of the electric utilities. compliance costs may arise from existing unit retirements, installation of additional environmental controls, upgrades to the transmission system, closure and monitoring of ccr facilities, and adding or changing fuel sources for certain existing units. environmental compliance spending over the next several years may differ materially from the amounts estimated. such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered on a timely basis through regulated rates or long-term wholesale agreements for the traditional operating companies or market-based rates for southern power. further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could negatively affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. additionally, if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines and/or remediation costs. the epa has filed civil actions against alabama power and georgia power and issued notices of violation to gulf power and mississippi power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. an adverse outcome in any of these matters could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as air quality and water standards, has occurred throughout the united states. this litigation has included claims for damages alleged to have been caused by co 2 and other emissions, ccr, and alleged exposure to hazardous materials, and/or requests for injunctive relief in connection with such matters. the ultimate cost impact of proposed and final legislation and regulations and litigation are likely to result in significant and additional costs and could result in additional operating restrictions. the net income of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be negatively impacted by changes in regulations related to transmission planning processes and competition in the wholesale electric markets. the traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. a small percentage of transmission revenues are collected through the wholesale electric tariff but the majority of transmission revenues are collected through retail rates. ferc rules pertaining to regional transmission planning and cost allocation present challenges to transmission planning and the wholesale market structure in the southeast. the key impacts of these rules include: possible disruption of the integrated resource planning processes within the states in the southern company system's service territory; delays and additional processes for developing transmission plans; and possible impacts on state jurisdiction of approving, certifying, and pricing of new transmission facilities. the ferc rules related to transmission are intended to spur the development of new transmission infrastructure to promote and i-18 table of contents index to financial statements encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply as well as facilitate competition in the wholesale market by providing more choices to wholesale power customers. in addition to the impacts on transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations also impact power hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges as well as over-the-counter. finally, technology changes in the power and fuel industries continue to create significant impacts to wholesale transaction cost structures. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power cannot predict the impact of these and other such developments, nor can they predict the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond their control. the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be adversely affected by these and other changes. the traditional operating companies and southern power could be subject to higher costs as a result of implementing and maintaining compliance with the north american electric reliability corporation mandatory reliability standards along with possible associated penalties for non-compliance. owners and operators of bulk power systems, including the traditional operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. compliance with or changes in the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional operating companies, southern power, and southern company to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if any traditional operating company or southern power is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, such traditional operating company or southern power could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. operational risks the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if the subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries' electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities and the successful performance of necessary corporate functions. there are many risks that could affect these operations and performance of corporate functions, including: operator error or failure of equipment or processes, particularly with older generating facilities; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks; fuel or material supply interruptions; transmission disruption or capacity constraints, including with respect to the southern company system's transmission facilities and third party transmission facilities; compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards; implementation of technologies with which the southern company system is developing experience; information technology system failure; cyber intrusion; an environmental event, such as a spill or release; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. in addition, an investment in a subsidiary with such generation, transmission, or distribution facilities could be adversely impacted. i-19 table of contents index to financial statements operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, safety, health, regulatory, natural disasters, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of the nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units. the six existing units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 mws, or 7.9%, of the southern company system's generation capacity as of december 31, 2014. in addition, these units generated approximately 23% and 22% of the total kwhs generated by alabama power and georgia power, respectively, in the year ended december 31, 2014. in addition, southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. due solely to the increase in nuclear generating capacity, the below risks are expected to increase incrementally once plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are operational. nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, safety, health, operational, and financial risks such as: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health and safety resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive material, including spent nuclear fuel; uncertainties with respect to the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and the need for longer term on-site storage; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of licensed lives and the ability to maintain and anticipate adequate capital reserves for decommissioning; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the nuclear operations of alabama power and georgia power or those of other commercial nuclear facility owners in the united states; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; significant capital expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair of these facilities, including repairs and upgrades required by the nrc; the threat of a possible terrorist attack, including a potential cyber security attack; and the potential impact of an accident or natural disaster. it is possible that damages, decommissioning, or other costs could exceed the amount of decommissioning trusts or external insurance coverage, including statutorily required nuclear incident insurance. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance with nrc licensing and safety-related requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit, prohibit, or require significant changes to the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit that could result in substantial costs. moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the united states, including facilities owned and operated by third parties, could require alabama power and georgia power to make material contributory payments. in addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict. physical or cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, could impact the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. the traditional operating companies and southern power face the risk of physical and cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, against their respective generation facilities, the transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport power, and their information technology systems and network infrastructure, which could negatively impact the ability of the traditional operating companies or southern power to generate, transport, and deliver power, or otherwise operate their respective facilities in the most efficient manner or at all. in addition, physical or cyber attacks against key suppliers or service providers could have a similar effect on southern company and its subsidiaries. i-20 table of contents index to financial statements the traditional operating companies and southern power operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of an interconnected regional grid. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the traditional operating companies and southern power collect and retain sensitive information including personal identification information about customers and employees and other confidential information. the traditional operating companies and southern power face on-going threats to their assets. despite the implementation of robust security measures, all assets are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error, natural disasters, technological failure, or internal or external physical or cyber attacks. if the traditional operating companies' or southern power's assets were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached and were not recovered in a timely way, the traditional operating companies or southern power may be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. any physical security breach, cyber breach or theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data may also subject the applicable traditional operating company or southern power to penalties and claims from regulators or other third parties. these events could harm the reputation of and negatively affect the financial results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power through lost revenues, costs to recover and repair damage, and costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks. the traditional operating companies and southern power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and biomass, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate their respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for a portion of their electric generating capacity. the traditional operating companies depend on coal supply contracts, and there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional operating companies. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional operating companies. in addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be recoverable through rates. in addition, the traditional operating companies and southern power to a greater extent have become more dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. in many instances, the cost of purchased power for the traditional operating companies and southern power is influenced by natural gas prices. historically, natural gas prices have been more volatile than prices of other fuels. in recent years, domestic natural gas prices have been depressed by robust supplies, including production from shale gas. these market conditions, together with additional regulation of coal-fired generating units, have increased the traditional operating companies' reliance on natural gas-fired generating units. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane or a pipeline failure. the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility may have a material impact on the supply and cost of natural gas. in addition, world market conditions for fuels can impact the cost and availability of natural gas, coal, and uranium. the revenues of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, or the failure to renew the ppas or successfully remarket the related generating capacity, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power's generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas. in addition, the traditional operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. although the credit evaluations undertaken and contractual protections implemented by southern power and the traditional operating companies take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than predicted or specified in the applicable contract. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. i-21 table of contents index to financial statements changes in technology may make southern company's electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power less competitive. a key element of the business models of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells. advances in technology or changes in laws or regulations could reduce the cost of these or other alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost effective distributed generation. broader use of distributed generation by retail electric customers may also result from customers' changing perceptions of the merits of utilizing existing generation technology or tax or other economic incentives. additionally, there can be no assurance that a state psc or legislature will not attempt to modify certain aspects of the traditional operating companies' business as a result of these advances in technology. if these technologies became cost competitive and achieved sufficient scale, the market share of the traditional operating companies and southern power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. if state pscs fail to adjust rates to reflect the impact of any changes in loads, increasing self-generation, and the growth of distributed generation, the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of southern company and the traditional operating companies could be materially adversely affected. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact southern company's and its subsidiaries' results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges such as lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, especially with the workforce needs associated with the kemper igcc and plant vogtle units 3 and 4 construction. the southern company system's costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs, and safety costs, may rise. failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect southern company and its subsidiaries' ability to manage and operate their businesses. if southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies, are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. construction risks southern company, the traditional operating companies, and/or southern power may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. also, existing facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power require ongoing capital expenditures, including those to meet environmental standards. general the businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, including those to meet environmental standards. certain of the traditional operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. the southern company system intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, expanding existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. these types of projects are long-term in nature and in some cases include the development and construction of facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. the completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; labor costs and productivity; work stoppages; contractor or supplier delay or non-performance under construction or other agreements or non-performance by other major participants in construction projects; i-22 table of contents index to financial statements delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, tax credits, and other regulatory authorizations; delays associated with start-up activities, including major equipment failure, system integration, and operations, and/or unforeseen engineering problems; impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; the outcome of legal challenges to projects, including legal challenges to regulatory approvals; failure to construct in accordance with licensing requirements; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; other unforeseen engineering problems; changes in project design or scope; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; and unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor, and increased financing costs as a result of changes in market interest rates or as a result of construction schedule delays. in addition, with respect to the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 and the operation of existing nuclear units, a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units or require additional safety measures at new and existing units. if a traditional operating company or southern power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and there is no assurance that the traditional operating company will be able to recover such expenditures through regulated rates. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. construction delays could result in the loss of otherwise available investment tax credits, production tax credits, and other tax incentives. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or southern power and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional operating companies' existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide reliable operations. the two largest construction projects currently underway in the southern company system are the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 and the kemper igcc. plant vogtle units 3 and 4 construction southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of and will operate plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (each, an approximately 1,100 mw ap1000 nuclear generating unit). georgia power owns 45.7% of the new units. the nrc certified the westinghouse electric company llc's design control document, as amended (dcd), for the ap1000 nuclear reactor design, in late 2011, and issued combined cols in early 2012. receipt of the cols allowed full construction to begin. there have been technical and procedural challenges to the construction and licensing of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, at the federal and state level, and additional challenges are expected as construction proceeds. georgia power, opc, meag power, and dalton (collectively, vogtle owners) and westinghouse electric company llc (westinghouse) and stone &amp; webster, inc., a subsidiary of the shaw group inc., which was acquired by chicago bridge &amp; iron company n.v. (collectively, contractor) are involved in litigation regarding the costs associated with design changes to the dcd and the delays in the timing of approval of the dcd and issuance of the cols, including the assertion by the contractor i-23 table of contents index to financial statements that the vogtle owners are responsible for these costs under the terms of the agreement with the contractor (vogtle 3 and 4 agreement). also in 2012, georgia power and the other vogtle owners filed suit against the contractor in the u.s. district court for the southern district of georgia seeking a declaratory judgment that the vogtle owners are not responsible for these costs. in 2012, the contractor also filed suit against georgia power and the other vogtle owners in the u.s. district court for the district of columbia alleging the vogtle owners are responsible for these costs. in august 2013, the u.s. district court for the district of columbia dismissed the contractor's suit, ruling that the proper venue is the u.s. district court for the southern district of georgia. the contractor appealed the decision to the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit in september 2013. the portion of additional costs claimed by the contractor in its initial complaint that would be attributable to georgia power (based on georgia power's ownership interest) is approximately $425 million (in 2008 dollars). the contractor also asserted it is entitled to extensions of the guaranteed substantial completion dates of april 2016 and april 2017 for plant vogtle units 3 and 4, respectively. on may 22, 2014, the contractor filed an amended counterclaim to the suit pending in the u.s. district court for the southern district of georgia alleging that (i) the design changes to the dcd imposed by the nrc delayed module production and the impacts to the contractor are recoverable by the contractor under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement and (ii) the changes to the basemat rebar design required by the nrc caused additional costs and delays recoverable by the contractor under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement. the contractor did not specify in its amended counterclaim the amounts relating to these new allegations; however, the contractor has subsequently asserted related minimum damages (based on georgia power's ownership interest) of $113 million. the contractor may from time to time continue to assert that it is entitled to additional payments with respect to these allegations, any of which could be substantial. georgia power has not agreed to the proposed cost or to any changes to the guaranteed substantial completion dates or that the vogtle owners have any responsibility for costs related to these issues. litigation is ongoing and georgia power intends to vigorously defend the positions of the vogtle owners. georgia power also expects negotiations with the contractor to continue with respect to cost and schedule during which negotiations the parties may reach a mutually acceptable compromise of their positions. georgia power is required to file semi-annual vogtle construction monitoring (vcm) reports with the georgia psc by february 28 and august 31 each year. if the projected certified construction capital costs to be borne by georgia power increase by 5% or the projected in-service dates are significantly extended, georgia power is required to seek an amendment to the plant vogtle units 3 and 4 certificate from the georgia psc. georgia power's eighth vcm report filed in february 2013 requested an amendment to the certificate to increase the estimated in-service capital cost of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 from $4.4 billion to $4.8 billion and to extend the estimated in-service dates to the fourth quarter 2017 and the fourth quarter 2018 for plant vogtle units 3 and 4, respectively. in september 2013, the georgia psc approved a stipulation (2013 stipulation) entered into by georgia power and the georgia psc staff to waive the requirement to amend the plant vogtle units 3 and 4 certificate, until the completion of plant vogtle unit 3, or earlier if deemed appropriate by the georgia psc and georgia power. in accordance with the georgia integrated resource planning act, any costs incurred by georgia power in excess of the certified amount will be included in rate base, provided georgia power shows the costs to be reasonable and prudent. in addition, financing costs on any construction-related costs in excess of the certified amount likely would be subject to recovery through afudc instead of the nuclear construction cost recovery tariff. the georgia psc has approved eleven vcm reports covering the periods through june 30, 2014, including construction capital costs incurred, which through that date totaled $2.8 billion. on january 29, 2015, georgia power announced that it was notified by the contractor of the contractor's revised forecast for completion of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, which would incrementally delay the previously disclosed estimated in-service dates by 18 months (from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the second quarter of 2019 for unit 3 and from the fourth quarter of 2018 to the second quarter of 2020 for unit 4). georgia power has not agreed to any changes to the guaranteed substantial completion dates of april 2016 and april 2017 for plant vogtle units 3 and 4, respectively. georgia power does not believe that the contractor's revised forecast reflects all efforts that may be possible to mitigate the contractor's delay. in addition, georgia power believes that, pursuant to the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement, the contractor is responsible for the contractor's costs related to the contractor's delay (including any related construction and mitigation costs, which could be material) and that the vogtle owners are entitled to recover liquidated damages for the contractor's delay beyond the guaranteed substantial completion dates of april 2016 and april 2017 for plant vogtle units 3 and 4, respectively. consistent with the contractor's position in the pending litigation described above, georgia power expects the contractor to contest any claims for liquidated damages and to assert that the vogtle owners are responsible for additional costs related to the contractor's delay. the contractor's liability to the vogtle owners for schedule and performance liquidated damages and warranty claims is subject to a cap. in addition, the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement provides for limited cost sharing by the vogtle owners for contractor costs under certain conditions (which have not occurred), with maximum additional capital costs under this provision attributable to georgia power (based on georgia power's ownership interest) of approximately $114 million. i-24 table of contents index to financial statements on february 27, 2015, georgia power filed its twelfth vcm report with the georgia psc covering the period from july 1 through december 31, 2014, which requests approval for an additional $0.2 billion of construction capital costs incurred during that period and reflects the contractor's revised forecast for completion of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 as well as additional estimated owner-related costs of approximately $10 million per month expected to result from the contractor's proposed 18-month delay, including property taxes, oversight costs, compliance costs, and other operational readiness costs. no contractor costs related to the contractor's proposed 18-month delay are included in the twelfth vcm report. additionally, while georgia power has not agreed to any change to the guaranteed substantial completion dates, the twelfth vcm report includes a requested amendment to the plant vogtle units 3 and 4 certificate to reflect the contractor's revised forecast, to include the estimated owner's costs associated with the proposed 18-month contractor delay, and to increase the estimated total in-service capital cost of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 to $5.0 billion. georgia power will continue to incur financing costs of approximately $30 million per month until plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are placed in service. the twelfth vcm report estimates total associated financing costs during the construction period to be approximately $2.5 billion. processes are in place that are designed to assure compliance with the requirements specified in the dcd and the cols, including inspections by southern nuclear and the nrc that occur throughout construction. as a result of such compliance processes, certain license amendment requests have been filed and approved or are pending before the nrc. various design and other licensing-based compliance issues are expected to arise as construction proceeds, which may result in additional license amendments or require other resolution. if any license amendment requests or other licensing-based compliance issues are not resolved in a timely manner, there may be delays in the project schedule that could result in increased costs either to the vogtle owners or the contractor or to both. as construction continues, the risk remains that ongoing challenges with contractor performance including additional challenges in its fabrication, assembly, delivery, and installation of the shield building and structural modules, delays in the receipt of the remaining permits necessary for the operation of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, or other issues could arise and may further impact project schedule and cost. in addition, the irs allocated production tax credits to each of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, which require the applicable unit to be placed in service before 2021. additional claims by the contractor or georgia power (on behalf of the vogtle owners) are also likely to arise throughout construction. these claims may be resolved through formal and informal dispute resolution procedures under the engineering, procurement, and construction agreement for plant vogtle units 3 and 4, but also may be resolved through litigation. kemper igcc construction in 2012, the mississippi psc issued a detailed order confirming the cpcn originally approved by the mississippi psc in 2010 authorizing the acquisition, construction, and operation of the kemper igcc (2012 mpsc cpcn order). the 2012 mpsc cpcn order included a certificated cost estimate of $2.4 billion, net of the doe grants and excluding the cost cap exceptions described below, and approved a construction cost cap of up to $2.88 billion, with recovery of prudently-incurred costs subject to approval by the mississippi psc. as discussed below, the 2013 settlement agreement, among other things, established processes for resolving matters regarding cost recovery (both during construction and startup and following commercial operation of the kemper igcc), including the treatment of costs in excess of the $2.88 billion cost cap. the kemper igcc was originally projected to be placed in service in may 2014. mississippi power placed the combined cycle and the associated common facilities portion of the kemper igcc in service on natural gas on august 9, 2014 and continues to focus on completing the remainder of the kemper igcc, including the gasifier and the gas clean-up facilities, for which the in-service date is currently expected to occur in the first half of 2016. mississippi power does not intend to seek any rate recovery or joint owner contributions for any costs related to the construction of the kemper igcc that exceed the $2.88 billion cost cap, net of the doe grants and excluding the cost of the lignite mine and equipment, the cost of the co 2 pipeline facilities, afudc, and certain general exceptions, including change of law, force majeure, and beneficial capital (which exists when mississippi power demonstrates that the purpose and effect of the construction cost increase is to produce efficiencies that will result in a neutral or favorable effect on customers relative to the original proposal for the cpcn) (cost cap exceptions). through december 31, 2014, southern company and mississippi power recorded pre-tax charges to income as a result of increases to the cost estimate of $2.05 billion ($1.26 billion after tax). primarily as a result of these charges, mississippi power incurred net losses after dividends on preferred stock of $328.7 million and $476.6 million in the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. the current estimate includes costs through march 31, 2016. any further extension of the in-service date is currently estimated to result in additional base costs of approximately $25 million to $30 million per month, which includes maintaining necessary levels of start-up labor, materials, and fuel, as well as operational resources required to execute start-up and commissioning activities. any further extension of the in-service date with respect to the kemper igcc would also increase costs for the cost cap exceptions, which are not i-25 table of contents index to financial statements subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap established by the mississippi psc. these costs include afudc, which is currently estimated to total approximately $13 million per month, as well as carrying costs and operating expenses on kemper igcc assets placed in service and consulting and legal fees, which are being deferred as regulatory assets and are estimated to total approximately $7 million per month. any further cost increases and/or extensions of the in-service date with respect to the kemper igcc may result from factors including, but not limited to, labor costs and productivity, adverse weather conditions, shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor, contractor or supplier delay, non-performance under construction or other agreements, operational readiness, including specialized operator training and required site safety programs, unforeseen engineering or design problems, start-up activities for this first-of-a-kind technology (including major equipment failure and system integration), and/or operational performance (including additional costs to satisfy any operational parameters ultimately adopted by the mississippi psc). in subsequent periods, any further changes in the estimated costs to complete construction and start-up of the kemper igcc subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap, net of the doe grants and excluding the cost cap exceptions, will be reflected in southern company's and mississippi power's statements of income and these changes could be material. under the 2013 settlement agreement, mississippi power agreed to limit the portion of prudently-incurred kemper igcc costs to be included in retail rate base to the $2.4 billion certificated cost estimate, plus the cost cap exceptions, but excluding afudc, and any other costs permitted or determined to be excluded from the $2.88 billion cost cap by the mississippi psc. the 2013 settlement agreement also allowed mississippi power to secure alternate financing for costs not otherwise recovered in any mississippi psc rate proceedings contemplated by the 2013 settlement agreement. legislation to authorize a multi-year rate plan and legislation to provide for alternate financing through securitization of up to $1.0 billion of prudently-incurred costs was enacted into law in february 2013. mississippi power's intent under the 2013 settlement agreement was to securitize (1) prudently-incurred costs in excess of the certificated cost estimate and up to the $2.88 billion cost cap, net of the doe grants and excluding the cost cap exceptions, (2) accrued afudc, and (3) other prudently-incurred costs, which include carrying costs from the estimated in-service date until securitization is finalized and other costs not included in the rate mitigation plan (described below) as approved by the mississippi psc. consistent with the terms of the 2013 settlement agreement, in march 2013, the mississippi psc issued a rate order (2013 mpsc rate order), approving retail rate increases of 15% effective march 19, 2013 and 3% effective january 1, 2014, which collectively were designed to collect $156 million annually beginning in 2014. for the period from march 2013 through december 31, 2014, $257.2 million had been collected primarily to be used to mitigate customer rate impacts after the kemper igcc is placed in service. on august 18, 2014, mississippi power provided the mississippi psc with an analysis of the costs and benefits of placing the combined cycle and the associated common facilities portion of the kemper igcc in service, including the expected accounting treatment. mississippi power's analysis requested, among other things, confirmation by the mississippi psc of the continued collection of rates as prescribed by the 2013 mpsc rate order, with the current recognition as revenue of the related equity return on all assets placed in service and the deferral of all remaining rate collections under the 2013 mpsc rate order to a regulatory liability account. as discussed further below, a february 2015 decision of the mississippi supreme court would discontinue the collection of, and require the refund of, all amounts previously collected under the 2013 mpsc rate order. in addition, mississippi power's august 18, 2014 filing with the mississippi psc requested confirmation of mississippi power's accounting treatment by the mississippi psc of the continued accrual of afudc through the in-service date of the remainder of the kemper igcc and the deferral of operating costs as regulatory assets. any action by the mississippi psc that is inconsistent with the treatment requested by mississippi power could have a material impact on the results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity of mississippi power and southern company. also consistent with the 2013 settlement agreement, mississippi power has filed with the mississippi psc a rate recovery plan for the kemper igcc for cost recovery through 2020 (rate mitigation plan), which is still under review by the mississippi psc. the revenue requirements set forth in the rate mitigation plan assume the sale of a 15% undivided interest in the kemper igcc to smepa and utilization of bonus depreciation, which currently requires that the related long-term asset be placed in service in 2015. on february 12, 2015, the mississippi supreme court (court) issued its decision in the legal challenge to the 2013 mpsc rate order filed by thomas a. blanton. the court reversed the 2013 mpsc rate order based on, among other things, its findings that (1) the collection of $156 million annually to be set aside in a regulatory liability account for use in mitigating future rate impacts for customers (mirror cwip) was not provided for under the baseload act and (2) the mississippi psc should have determined the prudence of kemper igcc costs before approving rate recovery through the 2013 mpsc rate order. the court also found the 2013 settlement agreement unenforceable due to a lack of public notice for the related proceedings. the court's ruling remands the matter to the mississippi psc to (1) fix by order the rates that were in existence prior to the 2013 mpsc i-26 table of contents index to financial statements rate order, (2) fix no rate increases until the mississippi psc is in compliance with the court's ruling, and (3) enter an order refunding amounts collected under the 2013 mpsc rate order. through december 31, 2014, mississippi power had collected $257.2 million through rates under the 2013 mpsc rate order. any required refunds would also include carrying costs. the court's decision will become legally effective upon the issuance of a mandate to the mississippi psc. absent specific instruction from the court, the mississippi psc will determine the method and timing of the refund. mississippi power is reviewing the court's decision and expects to file a motion for rehearing which would stay the court's mandate until either the case is reheard and decided or seven days after the court issues its order denying mississippi power's request for rehearing. mississippi power is also evaluating its regulatory options. to the extent that refunds of amounts collected under the 2013 mpsc rate order are required on a schedule different from the amortization schedule proposed in the rate mitigation plan, the customer billing impacts proposed under the rate mitigation plan would no longer be viable. in the event that the mirror cwip regulatory liability is refunded to customers prior to the in-service date of the kemper igcc and is, therefore, not available to mitigate rate impacts under the rate mitigation plan, the mississippi psc does not approve a refund schedule that facilitates rate mitigation, or mississippi power withdraws the rate mitigation plan, mississippi power would seek rate recovery through alternate means, which could include a traditional rate case. in addition to current estimated costs at december 31, 2014 of $6.20 billion, mississippi power anticipates that it will incur additional costs after the kemper igcc in-service date until the kemper igcc cost recovery approach is finalized. these costs include, but are not limited to, regulatory costs and additional carrying costs which could be material. recovery of these costs would be subject to approval by the mississippi psc. the mississippi psc's review of kemper igcc costs is ongoing. on august 5, 2014, the mississippi psc ordered that a consolidated prudence determination of all kemper igcc costs be completed after the entire project has been placed in service and has demonstrated availability for a reasonable period of time as determined by the mississippi psc and the mississippi public utilities staff. the mississippi psc has encouraged the parties to work in good faith to settle contested issues and mississippi power is working to reach a mutually acceptable resolution. as a result of the court's decision, mississippi power intends to request that the mississippi psc reconsider its prudence review schedule. mississippi power expects the mississippi psc to include operational parameters in its evaluation of the rate mitigation plan and other related proceedings during the operation of the kemper igcc. to the extent the kemper igcc does not satisfy the operational parameters ultimately adopted by the mississippi psc or mississippi power incurs additional costs in order to satisfy such parameters, there could be a material adverse effect on southern company's and mississippi power's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, any failure to place the kemper igcc in-service by april 15, 2016 or to capture and sequester (via enhanced oil recovery) at least 65% of the carbon dioxide produced by the kemper igcc during operations in accordance with irs requirements would result in the loss of phase ii tax credits that have been allocated to the kemper igcc. through december 31, 2014, southern company and mississippi power have recorded tax benefits totaling $276 million, of which approximately $210 million have been utilized through that date. the ultimate outcome of these matters, including the resolution of legal challenges, determinations of prudency, and the specific manner of recovery of prudently-incurred costs, is subject to further regulatory actions and cannot be determined at this time. financial, economic, and market risks the generation operations and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce southern company's, the traditional operating companies', and/or southern power's revenues and increase costs. the generation operations and energy marketing operations of the southern company system are subject to changes in power prices and fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount received from the sale of power. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, biomass, and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; i-27 table of contents index to financial statements liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints, disruptions, or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on demand for electricity and the demand for fuels; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. for the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. historically, the traditional operating companies from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel cost balances and may experience such balances in the future. while the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred, and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating company and southern company. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, customer behaviors, and adoption patterns of technologies by the customers of the traditional operating companies and southern power. the consumption and use of energy are fundamentally linked to economic activity. this relationship is affected over time by changes in the economy, customer behaviors, and technologies. any economic downturn could negatively impact customer growth and usage per customer, thus reducing the sales of electricity and revenues. additionally, any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets, both nationally and internationally, could negatively affect the financial stability of customers and counterparties of the traditional operating companies and southern power. outside of economic disruptions, changes in customer behaviors in response to changing conditions and preferences or changes in the adoption of technologies could affect the relationship of economic activity to the consumption of electricity. on the customer behavior side, federal and state programs exist to influence how customers use energy, and several of the traditional operating companies have psc mandates to promote energy efficiency. the adoption of technology by customers can have both positive and negative impacts on sales. many new technologies utilize less energy than in the past. however, new electric technologies such as electric vehicles can create additional demand. there can be no assurance that the southern company system's planning processes will appropriately estimate and incorporate the impacts of changes in customer behavior, state and federal programs, psc mandates, and technology. all of the factors discussed above could adversely affect southern company's, the traditional operating companies', and/or southern power's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. the operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. in addition, significant weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, and winter storms, could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of the traditional operating companies and/or southern power and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity. electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, the traditional operating companies and southern power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the i-28 table of contents index to financial statements revenues, net income, and available cash of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and/or southern power. in addition, volatile or significant weather events could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional operating companies and the generating facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power. the traditional operating companies and southern power have significant investments in the atlantic and gulf coast regions which could be subject to major storm activity. further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. in the event a traditional operating company experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc. historically, the traditional operating companies from time to time have experienced deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such deficits in the future. any denial by the applicable state psc or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company's and southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional operating company or affecting southern power's customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity for extended periods. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand for electricity could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company's or southern power's and southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. acquisitions and dispositions may not result in anticipated benefits and may present risks not originally contemplated, which may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries have made significant acquisitions and dispositions in the past and may in the future make additional acquisitions and dispositions. southern power, in particular, continually seeks opportunities to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions or sales of assets. southern company and its subsidiaries may face significant competition for acquisition opportunities and there can be no assurance that anticipated acquisitions will be completed on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, these transactions are intended to, but may not, result in the generation of cash or income, the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, or the reduction of risk. these transactions may also affect the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. these transactions also involve risks, including: any acquisitions may not result in an increase in income or provide an adequate return of capital or other anticipated benefits; any acquisitions may not be successfully integrated into the acquiring company's operations and internal controls; the due diligence conducted prior to an acquisition may not uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure or the acquiring company may not appropriately evaluate the likelihood or quantify the exposure from identified risks; any disposition may result in decreased earnings, revenue, or cash flow; use of cash for acquisitions may adversely affect cash available for capital expenditures and other uses; or any dispositions, investments, or acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, results of operations, or financial condition of southern company or its subsidiaries. southern company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to southern company. southern company is a holding company and, as such, southern company has no operations of its own. substantially all of southern company's consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. southern company's ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to southern company. prior to funding southern company, southern company's subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions and financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. southern company's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide southern company with funds. i-29 table of contents index to financial statements a downgrade in the credit ratings of southern company, any of the traditional operating companies, or southern power company could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power company to post collateral or replace certain indebtedness. there are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power company, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power company could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any rating agency concludes that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power company has deteriorated. changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if one or more rating agencies downgrade southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power company, borrowing costs would increase, the pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, significant collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. any credit rating downgrades could require a traditional operating company or southern power company to alter the mix of debt financing currently used, and could require the issuance of secured indebtedness and/or indebtedness with additional restrictive covenants. demand for power could decrease or fail to grow at expected rates, resulting in stagnant or reduced revenues, limited growth opportunities, and potentially stranded generation assets. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power each engage in a long-term planning process to estimate the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. this planning process must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation facilities. inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including regional economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation assets while such assets are being constructed, the traditional operating companies may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of additional capacity and the traditional operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. in addition, under southern power's model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term ppas, southern power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. southern power and/or the traditional operating companies may not be able to extend existing ppas or to find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing ppas expire, or they may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and for southern company. demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation and transmission facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power are currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed the southern company system's available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or southern power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation and transmission facilities. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover some or all of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. under southern power's long-term fixed price ppas, southern power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and for southern company. energy conservation and energy price increases could negatively impact financial results. customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy prices, or individual conservation efforts, which could negatively impact the results of operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power. in addition, a number of regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed or introduced requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. conservation programs could impact the financial results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power in different ways. for example, if any traditional operating company is required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional operating company and southern company. i-30 table of contents index to financial statements certain of the traditional operating companies actively promote energy conservation programs, which have been approved by their respective state pscs. for certain of such traditional operating companies, regulatory mechanisms have been established that provide for the recovery of costs related to such programs and lost revenues as a result of such programs. however, to the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand beyond what is anticipated, the value of generation assets of the traditional operating companies and/or southern power and other unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted and the traditional operating companies could be negatively impacted depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. in addition, the failure of those traditional operating companies that actively promote energy conservation programs to achieve the energy conservation targets established by their respective state pscs could negatively impact such traditional operating companies' ability to recover costs and lost revenues as a result of such progress and ability to receive certain benefits related to such programs. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are unable to determine what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on their respective financial condition or results of operations. the businesses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. the inability of southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power is not able to access capital at competitive rates or on favorable terms, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. in addition, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. each of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain events or market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or the ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn or uncertainty; bankruptcy or financial distress at an unrelated energy company, financial institution, or sovereign entity; capital markets volatility and disruption, either nationally or internationally; changes in tax policy such as dividend tax rates; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on southern company's facilities or unrelated energy companies' facilities; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. in addition, georgia power's ability to make future borrowings through its term loan credit facility with the federal financing bank is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, as well as certification of compliance with the requirements of the loan guarantee program under title xvii of the energy policy act of 2005, including accuracy of project-related representations and warranties, delivery of updated project-related information and evidence of compliance with the prevailing wage requirements of the davis-bacon act of 1931, as amended, compliance with the cargo preference act of 1954, and certification from the doe's consulting engineer that proceeds of the advances are used to reimburse certain costs of construction relating to plant vogtle units 3 and 4 that are eligible for financing under the title xvii loan guarantee program. market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning trust assets or may increase plan costs, which then could require significant additional funding. the performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust under southern company's pension and postretirement benefit plans and the assets held in trust to satisfy obligations to decommission alabama power's and georgia power's nuclear plants. the southern company system has significant obligations related to pension and postretirement benefit i-31 table of contents index to financial statements plans. alabama power and georgia power each hold significant assets in the nuclear decommissioning trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below projected return rates. a decline in the market value of these assets may increase the funding requirements relating to benefit plan liabilities of the southern company system and alabama power's and georgia power's nuclear decommissioning obligations. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under pension and postretirement benefit plans of the southern company system; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. further, changes in demographics, including an increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. southern company and its subsidiaries are also facing rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than anticipated. if the southern company system is unable to successfully manage benefit plan assets and medical benefit costs and alabama power and georgia power are unable to successfully manage the nuclear decommissioning trust funds, results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable costs. the financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and natural disasters, among other things, could have disruptive effects on insurance markets. the availability of insurance covering risks that southern company, the traditional operating companies, southern power, and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. further, there is no guarantee that the insurance policies maintained by the southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power will cover all of the potential exposures or the actual amount of loss incurred. any losses not covered by insurance, or any increases in the cost of applicable insurance, could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. southern company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures. these risk management policies, limits, and procedures might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, derivative contracts entered for hedging purposes might not off-set the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. the factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis financial condition and liquidity "market price risk" of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant's financial statements under "financial instruments" in item 8 herein. see also note 10 to the financial statements of southern company, alabama power, and georgia power, note 9 to the financial statements of gulf power and mississippi power, and note 8 to the financial statements of southern power in item 8 herein. ii-3 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management's discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. utility regulatory, legislative, and litigation risks southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including rates and charges, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, incurrence of indebtedness, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting and tax policies and practices, physical security and cyber-security policies and practices, and the construction and operation of fossil-fuel, nuclear, hydroelectric, solar, wind, and biomass generating facilities, as well as transmission and distribution facilities. for example, the respective state pscs must approve the traditional operating companies' requested rates for retail customers. the traditional operating companies seek to recover their costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital) through their retail rates, and there can be no assurance that a state psc, in a future rate proceeding, will not alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is allowed or modify the current authorized rate of return. additionally, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by southern power must be approved by the ferc. these wholesale rates could be affected by changes to southern power's ability to conduct business pursuant to ferc market-based rate authority. the ferc rules related to retaining the authority to sell electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale markets are important for the traditional operating companies and southern power if they are to remain competitive in the wholesale markets in which they operate. the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs or otherwise negatively affect their results of operations. the southern company system's costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with current and future environmental laws, including laws and regulations designed to address air quality, water, ccr, global climate change, and other matters and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and/or southern power. the southern company system is subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, and the management and disposal of waste in order to adequately protect the environment. compliance with these environmental requirements requires the traditional operating companies and southern power to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at substantially all of their respective facilities. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power expect that these expenditures will continue to be significant in the future. on october 23, 2015, the epa published two final actions that would limit co 2 emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. one of the final actions contains specific emission standards governing co 2 emissions from new, modified, and reconstructed units. the other final action, known as the clean power plan, establishes guidelines for states to develop plans to meet epa-mandated co 2 emission rates for existing units. the epa's final guidelines require state plans to meet interim co 2 performance rates between 2022 and 2029 and final rates in 2030 and thereafter. the proposed guidelines and standards could result in operational restrictions and material compliance costs, including capital expenditures, which could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions. on february 9, 2016, the u.s. supreme court granted a stay of the clean power plan, pending disposition of petitions for its review with the courts. the stay will remain in effect through the resolution of the litigation, whether resolved in the d.c. circuit or the supreme court. costs associated with these actions could be significant to the utility industry and the southern company system. however, the ultimate financial and operational impact of the final rules on the southern company system cannot be determined at this time i-17 table of contents index to financial statements and will depend upon numerous factors, including the southern company system's ongoing review of the final rules; the outcome of legal challenges, including legal challenges filed by the traditional operating companies; individual state implementation of the epa's final guidelines, including the potential that state plans impose different standards; additional rulemaking activities in response to legal challenges and related court decisions; the impact of future changes in generation and emissions-related technology and costs; the impact of future decisions regarding unit retirement and replacement, including the type and amount of any such replacement capacity; and the time periods over which compliance will be required. the epa has adopted and is in the process of implementing regulations governing air quality, including the emission of nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, fine particulate matter, ozone, mercury, and other air pollutants under the clean air act. in addition, the epa has finalized regulations governing cooling water intake structures, effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants, and amending the definition of waters of the united states under the clean water act. the epa has also finalized regulations governing the disposal of ccr, including coal ash and gypsum, in landfills and surface impoundments at active power generation plants. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to air quality, water, ccr, global climate change, endangered species, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to the traditional operating companies and/or southern power. the southern company system's ultimate environmental compliance strategy, including potential unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures will be affected by the final requirements of new or revised environmental regulations; the time periods over which compliance with regulations is required; individual state implementation of regulations, as applicable; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules and any additional rulemaking activities in response to legal challenges and court decisions; the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emissions allowances; the impact of future changes in generation and emissions-related technology and costs; and the fuel mix of the electric utilities. compliance costs may arise from existing unit retirements, installation of additional environmental controls, upgrades to the transmission system, closure and monitoring of ccr facilities, and adding or changing fuel sources for certain existing units. environmental compliance spending over the next several years may differ materially from the amounts estimated. such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered on a timely basis through regulated rates or long-term wholesale agreements for the traditional operating companies or market-based rates for southern power. further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could negatively affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. additionally, if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines and/or remediation costs. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as air quality and water standards, has occurred throughout the u.s. this litigation has included claims for damages alleged to have been caused by co 2 and other emissions, ccr, and alleged exposure to hazardous materials, and/or requests for injunctive relief in connection with such matters. the ultimate cost impact of proposed and final legislation and regulations and litigation are likely to result in significant additional costs and could result in additional operating restrictions. the net income of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be negatively impacted by changes in regulations related to transmission planning processes and competition in the wholesale electric markets. the traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. a small percentage of transmission revenues are collected through the wholesale electric tariff but the majority of transmission revenues are collected through retail rates. ferc rules pertaining to regional transmission planning and cost allocation present challenges to transmission planning and the wholesale market structure in the southeast. the key impacts of these rules include: possible disruption of the integrated resource planning processes within the states in the southern company system's service territory; delays and additional processes for developing transmission plans; and possible impacts on state jurisdiction of approving, certifying, and pricing new transmission facilities. the ferc rules related to transmission are intended to spur the development of new transmission infrastructure to promote and encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply as well as facilitate competition in the wholesale market by providing more choices to wholesale power customers. in addition to the impacts on transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations also impact power hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are i-18 table of contents index to financial statements traded on various commodities exchanges as well as over-the-counter. finally, technology changes in the power and fuel industries continue to create significant impacts to wholesale transaction cost structures. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power cannot predict the impact of these and other such developments, nor can they predict the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond their control. the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could be adversely affected by these and other changes. the traditional operating companies and southern power could be subject to higher costs as a result of implementing and maintaining compliance with the north american electric reliability corporation mandatory reliability standards along with possible associated penalties for non-compliance. owners and operators of bulk power systems, including the traditional operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. compliance with or changes in the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional operating companies, southern power, and southern company to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if any traditional operating company or southern power is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, such traditional operating company or southern power could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. operational risks the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if the subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of its subsidiaries' electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities and the successful performance of necessary corporate functions. there are many risks that could affect these operations and performance of corporate functions, including: operator error or failure of equipment or processes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks (physical and/or cyber); fuel or material supply interruptions; transmission disruption or capacity constraints, including with respect to the southern company system's transmission facilities and third party transmission facilities; compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards; implementation of new technologies; information technology system failure; cyber intrusion; an environmental event, such as a spill or release; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, safety, health, regulatory, natural disasters, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of the nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units. the six existing units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 mws, or 8%, of the southern company system's generation capacity as of december 31, 2015. in addition, these units generated approximately 23% and 25% of the total kwhs generated by alabama power and georgia power, respectively, in the year ended december 31, 2015. in addition, southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. due solely to the increase in nuclear generating capacity, the below risks are expected to increase incrementally once plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are operational. nuclear i-19 table of contents index to financial statements facilities are subject to environmental, safety, health, operational, and financial risks such as: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health and safety resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive material, including spent nuclear fuel; uncertainties with respect to the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and the need for longer term on-site storage; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of licensed lives and the ability to maintain and anticipate adequate capital reserves for decommissioning; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the nuclear operations of alabama power and georgia power or those of other commercial nuclear facility owners in the u.s.; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; significant capital expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair of these facilities, including repairs and upgrades required by the nrc; the threat of a possible terrorist attack, including a potential cyber security attack; and the potential impact of an accident or natural disaster. it is possible that damages, decommissioning, or other costs could exceed the amount of decommissioning trusts or external insurance coverage, including statutorily required nuclear incident insurance. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance with nrc licensing and safety-related requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units or require additional safety measures at new and existing units. moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the u.s., including facilities owned and operated by third parties, could require alabama power and georgia power to make material contributory payments. in addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict. physical or cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, could impact the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. the traditional operating companies and southern power face the risk of physical and cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, against their respective generation facilities, the transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport power, and their information technology systems and network infrastructure, which could negatively impact the ability of the traditional operating companies or southern power to generate, transport, and deliver power, or otherwise operate their respective facilities in the most efficient manner or at all. in addition, physical or cyber attacks against key suppliers or service providers could have a similar effect on southern company and its subsidiaries. the traditional operating companies and southern power operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of an interconnected regional grid. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the traditional operating companies and southern power collect and retain sensitive information including personal identification information about customers and employees and other confidential information. the traditional operating companies and southern power face on-going threats to their assets. despite the implementation of robust security measures, all assets are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error, natural disasters, technological failure, or internal or external physical or cyber attacks. if the traditional operating companies' or southern power's assets were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached and were not recovered in a timely way, the traditional operating companies or southern power may be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. any physical security breach, cyber breach or theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data may also subject the applicable traditional operating company or southern power to penalties and claims from regulators or other third parties. i-20 table of contents index to financial statements these events could harm the reputation of and negatively affect the financial results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power through lost revenues, costs to recover and repair damage, and costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks. the traditional operating companies and southern power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities. the traditional operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and biomass, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and southern power to operate certain facilities, which could result in higher fuel and operating costs and potentially reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and southern company. the traditional operating companies and southern power have become more dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. in many instances, the cost of purchased power for the traditional operating companies and southern power is influenced by natural gas prices. historically, natural gas prices have been more volatile than prices of other fuels. in recent years, domestic natural gas prices have been depressed by robust supplies, including production from shale gas. these market conditions, together with additional regulation of coal-fired generating units, have increased the traditional operating companies' reliance on natural gas-fired generating units. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane, freezing wells, or a pipeline failure. the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility may have a material impact on the supply and cost of natural gas. the traditional operating companies are also dependent on coal for a portion of their electric generating capacity. the traditional operating companies depend on coal supply contracts, and there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional operating companies. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional operating companies. in addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be recoverable through rates. the revenues of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, the failure of the traditional operating companies or southern power to satisfy minimum requirements under the ppas, or the failure to renew the ppas or successfully remarket the related generating capacity, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power's generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas. southern power's top three customers, georgia power, florida power &amp; light company, and duke energy corporation, accounted for 15.8%, 10.7%, and 8.2%, respectively, of southern power's total revenues for the year ended december 31, 2015. in addition, the traditional operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. although the credit evaluations undertaken and contractual protections implemented by southern power and the traditional operating companies take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than predicted or specified in the applicable contract. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. as an example, gulf power had long-term sales contracts to cover 100% of its ownership share of plant scherer unit 3 (205 mws) and these capacity revenues represented 82% of gulf power's total wholesale capacity revenues for 2015. due to the expiration of a wholesale contract at the end of 2015 and future expiration dates of the remaining wholesale contracts for the unit, gulf power currently has contracts to cover 34% of the unit for 2016 and 27% of the unit through 2019. although gulf power is actively evaluating alternatives relating to this asset, including replacement wholesale contracts, the expiration of the contract in 2015 and the scheduled future expiration of the remaining contracts will have a material negative impact on gulf power's earnings in 2016 and may continue to have a material negative impact in future years. in addition, the failure of the traditional operating companies or southern power to satisfy minimum operational or availability requirements under these ppas could result in payment of damages or termination of the ppas. i-21 table of contents index to financial statements changes in technology may make southern company's electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power less competitive. a key element of the business models of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation and storage technologies that produce and store power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, solar cells, and batteries. advances in technology or changes in laws or regulations could reduce the cost of these or other alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost effective distributed generation. broader use of distributed generation by retail electric customers may also result from customers' changing perceptions of the merits of utilizing existing generation technology or tax or other economic incentives. additionally, there can be no assurance that a state psc or legislature will not attempt to modify certain aspects of the traditional operating companies' business as a result of these advances in technology. if these technologies became cost competitive and achieve sufficient scale, the market share of the traditional operating companies and southern power could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by the traditional operating companies and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. if state pscs fail to adjust rates to reflect the impact of any changes in loads, increasing self-generation, and the growth of distributed generation, the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of southern company and the traditional operating companies could be materially adversely affected. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact southern company's and its subsidiaries' results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges such as lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, including with the workforce needs associated with major construction projects and ongoing operations. the southern company system's costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs, and safety costs, may rise. failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect southern company and its subsidiaries' ability to manage and operate their businesses. if southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies, are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. construction risks southern company, the traditional operating companies, and/or southern power may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. also, existing facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power require ongoing capital expenditures, including those to meet environmental standards. general the businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, including those to meet environmental standards. certain of the traditional operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. the southern company system intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, expanding existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. these types of projects are long-term in nature and in some cases include the development and construction of facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. the completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; changes in labor costs and productivity; work stoppages; contractor or supplier delay or non-performance under construction or other agreements or non-performance by other major participants in construction projects; delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, tax credits, and other regulatory authorizations; i-22 table of contents index to financial statements delays associated with start-up activities, including major equipment failure and system integration, and/or operational performance (including additional costs to satisfy any operational parameters ultimately adopted by any psc); operational readiness, including specialized operator training and required site safety programs; impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; the outcome of legal challenges to projects, including legal challenges to regulatory approvals; failure to construct in accordance with licensing requirements; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; other unforeseen engineering or design problems; changes in project design or scope; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; and unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor, and increased financing costs as a result of changes in market interest rates or as a result of construction schedule delays. if a traditional operating company or southern power is unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and there is no assurance that the traditional operating company will be able to recover such expenditures through regulated rates. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional operating company or southern power and of southern company. construction delays could result in the loss of otherwise available investment tax credits, production tax credits, and other tax incentives. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional operating company or southern power and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional operating companies' existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older generation equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide reliable operations. the two largest construction projects currently underway in the southern company system are the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 and the kemper igcc. in addition, southern power has 691 mws (based on its equity ownership) of renewable generation under construction at eight project sites. plant vogtle units 3 and 4 construction southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of and will operate plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (each, an approximately 1,100 mw ap1000 nuclear generating unit). georgia power owns 45.7% of the new units. the nrc certified the westinghouse design control document, as amended (dcd), for the ap1000 nuclear reactor design, in late 2011, and issued combined cols in early 2012. receipt of the cols allowed full construction to begin. there have been technical and procedural challenges to the construction and licensing of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, at the federal and state level, and additional challenges may arise as construction proceeds. georgia power is required to file semi-annual vogtle construction monitoring (vcm) reports with the georgia psc by february 28 and august 31 each year. if the projected construction capital costs to be borne by georgia power increase by 5% above the certified cost or the projected in-service dates are significantly extended, georgia power is required to seek an amendment to the plant vogtle units 3 and 4 certificate from the georgia psc. in february 2013, georgia power requested an amendment to the certificate to increase the estimated in-service capital cost of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 from $4.4 billion to $4.8 billion and to extend the estimated in-service dates to the fourth quarter 2017 (from april 2016) and the fourth quarter 2018 (from april 2017) for plant vogtle units 3 and 4, respectively. in october 2013, the georgia psc approved a stipulation (2013 stipulation) between georgia power and the georgia psc staff (staff) to waive the requirement to amend the plant vogtle units 3 and 4 certificate until the completion of plant vogtle unit 3 or earlier if deemed appropriate by the georgia psc and georgia power. i-23 table of contents index to financial statements on april 15, 2015, the georgia psc issued a procedural order in connection with the twelfth vcm report, which included a requested amendment (requested amendment) to the plant vogtle units 3 and 4 certificate to reflect the contractor's revised forecast for completion of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (second quarter of 2019 and second quarter of 2020, respectively) as well as additional estimated vogtle owner's costs, of approximately $10 million per month, including property taxes, oversight costs, compliance costs, and other operational readiness costs to include the estimated vogtle owner's costs associated with the proposed 18-month contractor delay and to increase the estimated total in-service capital cost of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 to $5.0 billion. pursuant to the georgia psc's procedural order, the georgia psc deemed the requested amendment unnecessary and withdrawn until the completion of construction of plant vogtle unit 3 consistent with the 2013 stipulation. the georgia psc recognized that the certified cost and the 2013 stipulation do not constitute a cost recovery cap. in 2012, the vogtle owners and the contractor commenced litigation (vogtle construction litigation) regarding the costs associated with design changes to the dcd and the delays in the timing of approval of the dcd and issuance of the cols, including the assertion by the contractor that the vogtle owners are responsible for these costs under the terms of the engineering, procurement, and construction contract between the vogtle owners and the contractor (vogtle 3 and 4 agreement). on december 31, 2015, westinghouse and the vogtle owners entered into a definitive settlement agreement (contractor settlement agreement) to resolve disputes between the vogtle owners and the contractor under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement, including the vogtle construction litigation. effective december 31, 2015, georgia power, acting for itself and as agent for the other vogtle owners, and the contractor entered into an amendment to the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement to implement the contractor settlement agreement. the contractor settlement agreement and the related amendment to the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement (i) restrict the contractor's ability to seek further increases in the contract price by clarifying and limiting the circumstances that constitute nuclear regulatory changes in law; (ii) provide for enhanced dispute resolution procedures; (iii) revise the guaranteed substantial completion dates to match the current estimated in-service dates of june 30, 2019 for unit 3 and june 30, 2020 for unit 4; (iv) provide that delay liquidated damages will now commence from the current estimated nuclear fuel loading date for each unit, which is december 31, 2018 for unit 3 and december 31, 2019 for unit 4, rather than the original guaranteed substantial completion dates under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement; and (v) provide that georgia power, based on its ownership interest, will pay to the contractor and capitalize to the project cost approximately $350 million, of which approximately $120 million has been paid previously under the dispute resolution procedures of the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement. further, subsequent to december 31, 2015, georgia power paid approximately $121 million under the terms of the contractor settlement agreement. in addition, the contractor settlement agreement provides for the resolution of other open existing items relating to the scope of the project under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement, including cyber security, for which costs were reflected in georgia power's previously disclosed in-service cost estimate. further, as part of the settlement: (i) westinghouse has engaged fluor enterprises, inc., a subsidiary of fluor corporation, as a new construction subcontractor; and (ii) the vogtle owners, chicago bridge &amp; iron company n.v., and the shaw group inc. have entered into mutual releases of any and all claims arising out of events or circumstances in connection with the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 that occurred on or before the date of the contractor settlement agreement. on january 5, 2016, the vogtle construction litigation was dismissed with prejudice. on january 21, 2016, georgia power submitted the contractor settlement agreement and the related amendment to the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement to the georgia psc for its review. on february 2, 2016, the georgia psc ordered georgia power to file supplemental information by april 5, 2016 in support of the contractor settlement agreement and georgia power's position that all construction costs to date have been prudently incurred and that the current estimated in-service capital cost and schedule are reasonable. following georgia power's filing under the order, the staff will conduct a review of all costs incurred related to plant vogtle units 3 and 4, the schedule for completion of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, and the contractor settlement agreement and the staff is authorized to engage in related settlement discussions with georgia power and any intervenors. the order provides that the staff is required to report to the georgia psc by october 5, 2016 with respect to the status of its review and any settlement-related negotiations. if a settlement with the staff is reached with respect to costs of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, the georgia psc will then conduct a hearing to consider whether to approve that settlement. if a settlement with the staff is not reached, the georgia psc will determine how to proceed, including (i) modifying the 2013 stipulation, (ii) directing georgia power to file a request for an amendment to the certificate for plant vogtle units 3 and 4, (iii) issuing a scheduling order to address remaining disputed issues, or (iv) taking any other option within its authority. the georgia psc has approved thirteen vcm reports covering the periods through june 30, 2015, including construction capital costs incurred, which through that date totaled $3.1 billion. on february 26, 2016, georgia power filed its fourteenth vcm report with the georgia psc covering the period from july 1 through december 31, 2015. the fourteenth vcm report does not include a requested amendment to the certified cost of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. georgia power is requesting approval of $160 million of construction capital costs incurred during that period. georgia power anticipates to incur average financing costs of approximately $27 million per month from january 2016 until plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are placed in i-24 table of contents index to financial statements service. the updated in-service capital cost forecast is $5.44 billion and includes costs related to the contractor settlement agreement. estimated financing costs during the construction period total approximately $2.4 billion. georgia power's cwip balance for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 was approximately $3.6 billion as of december 31, 2015. processes are in place that are designed to assure compliance with the requirements specified in the dcd and the cols, including inspections by southern nuclear and the nrc that occur throughout construction. as a result of such compliance processes, certain license amendment requests have been filed and approved or are pending before the nrc. various design and other licensing-based compliance issues may arise as construction proceeds, which may result in additional license amendments or require other resolution. if any license amendment requests or other licensing-based compliance issues are not resolved in a timely manner, there may be delays in the project schedule that could result in increased costs either to the vogtle owners or the contractor or to both. as construction continues, the risk remains that challenges with contractor performance including fabrication, assembly, delivery, and installation of the shield building and structural modules, delays in the receipt of the remaining permits necessary for the operation of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, or other issues could arise and may further impact project schedule and cost. in addition, the internal revenue service allocated production tax credits to each of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, which require the applicable unit to be placed in service before 2021. future claims by the contractor or georgia power (on behalf of the vogtle owners) could arise throughout construction. these claims may be resolved through formal and informal dispute resolution procedures under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement and, under the enhanced dispute resolution procedures, may be resolved through litigation after the completion of nuclear fuel load for both units. kemper igcc construction in 2012, the mississippi psc issued a detailed order confirming the cpcn originally approved by the mississippi psc in 2010 authorizing the acquisition, construction, and operation of the kemper igcc (2012 mpsc cpcn order). the certificated cost estimate of the kemper igcc included in the 2012 mpsc cpcn order was $2.4 billion, net of $245 million of doe grants and excluding the cost of the lignite mine and equipment, the cost of the co 2 pipeline facilities, and afudc related to the kemper igcc. the 2012 mpsc cpcn order approved a construction cost cap of up to $2.88 billion, with recovery of prudently-incurred costs subject to approval by the mississippi psc. the kemper igcc was originally projected to be placed in service in may 2014. mississippi power placed the combined cycle and the associated common facilities portion of the kemper igcc in service using natural gas in august 2014 and currently expects to place the remainder of the kemper igcc, including the gasifier and the gas clean-up facilities, in service during the third quarter 2016. mississippi power does not intend to seek rate recovery for any costs related to the construction of the kemper igcc that exceed the $2.88 billion cost cap, net of the doe grants and excluding the cost of the lignite mine and equipment, the cost of the co 2 pipeline facilities, afudc, and certain general exceptions, including change of law, force majeure, and beneficial capital (which exists when mississippi power demonstrates that the purpose and effect of the construction cost increase is to produce efficiencies that will result in a neutral or favorable effect on customers relative to the original proposal for the cpcn) (cost cap exceptions). southern company and mississippi power recorded pre-tax charges to income for revisions to the cost estimate above the cost cap of $365 million ($226 million after tax), $868 million ($536 million after tax), and $1.1 billion ($681 million after tax) in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. the increases to the cost estimate in 2015 primarily reflect costs for the extension of the kemper igcc's projected in-service date through august 31, 2016, increased efforts related to scope modifications, additional labor costs in support of start-up and operational readiness activities, and system repairs and modifications after startup testing and commissioning activities identified necessary remediation of equipment installation, fabrication, and design issues, including the refractory lining inside the gasifiers; the lignite feed and dryer systems; and the syngas cooler vessels. any extension of the in-service date beyond august 31, 2016 is currently estimated to result in additional base costs of approximately $25 million to $35 million per month, which includes maintaining necessary levels of start-up labor, materials, and fuel, as well as operational resources required to execute start-up and commissioning activities. however, additional costs may be required for remediation of any further equipment and/or design issues identified. any extension of the in-service date with respect to the kemper igcc beyond august 31, 2016 would also increase costs for the cost cap exceptions, which are not subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap established by the mississippi psc. these costs include afudc, which is currently estimated to total approximately $13 million per month, as well as carrying costs and operating expenses on kemper igcc assets placed in service and consulting and legal fees of approximately $2 million per month. mississippi power's analysis of the time needed to complete the start-up and commissioning activities for the kemper igcc will continue until the remaining kemper igcc assets are placed in service. further cost increases and/or extensions of the in-service date with respect to the kemper igcc may result from factors including, but not limited to, labor costs and productivity, adverse weather conditions, shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor, contractor or i-25 table of contents index to financial statements supplier delay, non-performance under operating or other agreements, operational readiness, including specialized operator training and required site safety programs, unforeseen engineering or design problems, start-up activities for this first-of-a-kind technology (including major equipment failure and system integration), and/or operational performance (including additional costs to satisfy any operational parameters ultimately adopted by the mississippi psc). in subsequent periods, any further changes in the estimated costs to complete construction and start-up of the kemper igcc subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap, net of the doe grants and excluding the cost cap exceptions, will be reflected in southern company's and mississippi power's statements of operations and these changes could be material. in january 2013, mississippi power entered into a settlement agreement with the mississippi psc that was intended to establish the process for resolving matters regarding cost recovery related to the kemper igcc (2013 settlement agreement). under the 2013 settlement agreement, mississippi power agreed to limit the portion of prudently-incurred kemper igcc costs to be included in retail rate base to the $2.4 billion certificated cost estimate, plus the cost cap exceptions, but excluding afudc, and any other costs permitted or determined to be excluded from the $2.88 billion cost cap by the mississippi psc. in march 2013, the mississippi psc issued a rate order approving retail rate increases of 15% effective march 19, 2013 and 3% effective january 1, 2014, which collectively were designed to collect $156 million annually beginning in 2014 (2013 mpsc rate order) to be used to mitigate customer rate impacts after the kemper igcc is placed in service. on february 12, 2015, the mississippi supreme court (court) issued its decision in the legal challenge to the 2013 mpsc rate order. the court reversed the 2013 mpsc rate order based on, among other things, its findings that (1) the rate treatment was not provided for under the baseload act and (2) the mississippi psc should have determined the prudence of kemper igcc costs before approving rate recovery through the 2013 mpsc rate order. the court also found the 2013 settlement agreement unenforceable due to a lack of public notice for the related proceedings. on july 7, 2015, the mississippi psc ordered that the rates be terminated effective july 20, 2015 and required the fourth quarter 2015 refund of the $342 million collected under the 2013 mpsc rate order, along with associated carrying costs of $29 million. as a result of the 2015 court decision, on july 10, 2015, mississippi power filed a request for interim rates with the mississippi psc which presented an alternative rate proposal (in-service asset proposal) for consideration by the mississippi psc. the in-service asset proposal was based upon the test period of june 2015 to may 2016, was designed to recover mississippi power's costs associated with the kemper igcc assets that are commercially operational and currently providing service to customers (the transmission facilities, combined cycle, natural gas pipeline, and water pipeline) and other related costs, and was designed to collect approximately $159 million annually. on august 13, 2015, the mississippi psc approved the implementation of interim rates that became effective with the first billing cycle in september, subject to refund and certain other conditions. on december 3, 2015, the mississippi psc issued an order (in-service asset rate order) adopting in full a stipulation (the 2015 stipulation) entered into between mississippi power and the mississippi public utilities staff regarding the in-service asset proposal. consistent with the 2015 stipulation, the in-service asset rate order provides for retail rate recovery of an annual revenue requirement of approximately $126 million, based on mississippi power's actual average capital structure, with a maximum common equity percentage of 49.733%, a 9.225% return on common equity, and actual embedded interest costs during the test period. the in-service asset rate order also includes a prudence finding of all costs in the stipulated revenue requirement calculation for the in-service assets. with implementation of the new rate on december 17, 2015, the interim rates were terminated and mississippi power recorded a customer refund of approximately $11 million in december 2015 for the difference between the interim rates collected and the permanent rates. the refund is required to be completed by march 16, 2016. pursuant to the in-service asset rate order, mississippi power is required to file a subsequent rate request within 18 months. as part of the filing, mississippi power expects to request recovery of certain costs that the mississippi psc had excluded from the revenue requirement calculation. on february 25, 2016, greenleaf co2 solutions, llc filed a notice of appeal of the in-service asset rate order with the court. mississippi power believes the appeal has no merit; however, an adverse outcome in this appeal could have a material impact on southern company's results of operations. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. legislation to authorize a multi-year rate plan and legislation to provide for alternate financing through securitization of up to $1.0 billion of prudently-incurred costs was enacted into law in 2013. mississippi power expects to securitize prudently-incurred qualifying facility costs in excess of the certificated cost estimate of $2.4 billion. qualifying facility costs include, but are not limited to, pre-construction costs, construction costs, regulatory costs, and accrued afudc. in 2010 and as amended in 2012, mississippi power and smepa entered into an agreement whereby smepa agreed to purchase a 15% undivided interest in the kemper igcc. on may 20, 2015, smepa notified mississippi power that it was terminating the agreement. mississippi power had previously received a total of $275 million of deposits from smepa that were returned by southern company to smepa, with interest of approximately $26 million, on june 3, 2015, as a result of the i-26 table of contents index to financial statements termination, pursuant to its guarantee obligation. subsequently, mississippi power issued a promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $301 million to southern company, which matures december 1, 2017. the in-service asset proposal and the related rates approved by the mississippi psc excluded any costs associated with the 15% undivided interest. mississippi power continues to evaluate its alternatives with respect to its investment and the related costs associated with the 15% undivided interest. mississippi power expects to seek additional rate relief to address recovery of the remaining kemper igcc assets. in addition to current estimated costs at december 31, 2015 of $6.63 billion, mississippi power anticipates that it will incur additional costs after the kemper igcc in-service date until the kemper igcc cost recovery approach is finalized. these costs include, but are not limited to, regulatory costs and additional carrying costs which could be material. recovery of these costs would be subject to approval by the mississippi psc. mississippi power also expects the mississippi psc to apply operational parameters in connection with future proceedings related to the operation of the kemper igcc. to the extent the mississippi psc determines the kemper igcc does not meet the operational parameters ultimately adopted by the mississippi psc or mississippi power incurs additional costs to satisfy such parameters, there could be a material adverse impact on mississippi power's financial statements. mississippi power has entered into agreements with denbury onshore (denbury), a subsidiary of denbury resources inc., and treetop midstream services, llc (treetop), an affiliate of tellus operating group, llc and a subsidiary of tengrys, llc, pursuant to which denbury will purchase 70% of the co 2 captured from the kemper igcc and treetop will purchase 30% of the co 2 captured from the kemper igcc. the agreements with denbury and treetop provide denbury and treetop with termination rights as mississippi power has not satisfied its contractual obligation to deliver captured co 2 by may 11, 2015. since may 11, 2015, mississippi power has been engaged in ongoing discussions with its off-takers regarding the status of the co 2 delivery schedule as well as other issues related to the co 2 agreements. as a result of discussions with treetop, on august 3, 2015, mississippi power agreed to amend certain provisions of their agreement that do not affect pricing or minimum purchase quantities. potential requirements imposed on co 2 off-takers under the clean power plan (if ultimately enacted in its current form, pending resolution of litigation) and the potential adverse financial impact of low oil prices on the off-takers increase the risk that the co 2 contracts may be terminated or materially modified. any termination or material modification of these agreements could result in a material reduction in mississippi power's revenues to the extent mississippi power is not able to enter into other similar contractual arrangements. additionally, if the contracts remain in place, sustained oil price reductions could result in significantly lower revenues than mississippi power forecasted to be available to offset customer rate impacts, which could have a material impact on mississippi power's financial statements. the ultimate outcome of these matters, including the resolution of legal challenges, determinations of prudency, and the specific manner of recovery of prudently-incurred costs, is subject to further regulatory actions and cannot be determined at this time. financial, economic, and market risks the generation operations and energy marketing operations of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in power prices and fuel costs, which may reduce southern company's, the traditional operating companies', and/or southern power's revenues and increase costs. the generation operations and energy marketing operations of the southern company system are subject to changes in power prices and fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount received from the sale of power. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. among the factors that could influence power prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, biomass, and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints, disruptions, or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; i-27 table of contents index to financial statements forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on demand for electricity and the demand for fuels; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. for the traditional operating companies, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating companies or southern power and southern company. historically, the traditional operating companies from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel cost balances and may experience such balances in the future. while the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to recover fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred, and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating company and southern company. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, customer behaviors, including increased energy conservation, and adoption patterns of technologies by the customers of the traditional operating companies and southern power. the consumption and use of energy are fundamentally linked to economic activity. this relationship is affected over time by changes in the economy, customer behaviors, and technologies. any economic downturn could negatively impact customer growth and usage per customer, thus reducing the sales of electricity and revenues. additionally, any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets, both nationally and internationally, could negatively affect the financial stability of customers and counterparties of the traditional operating companies and southern power. outside of economic disruptions, changes in customer behaviors in response to energy efficiency programs, changing conditions and preferences or changes in the adoption of technologies could affect the relationship of economic activity to the consumption of electricity. both federal and state programs exist to influence how customers use energy, and several of the traditional operating companies have psc mandates to promote energy efficiency. conservation programs could impact the financial results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power in different ways. for example, if any traditional operating company is required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional operating company and southern company. customers could also voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy prices, or individual conservation efforts. in addition, the adoption of technology by customers can have both positive and negative impacts on sales. many new technologies utilize less energy than in the past. however, new electric technologies such as electric vehicles can create additional demand. there can be no assurance that the southern company system's planning processes will appropriately estimate and incorporate the impacts of changes in customer behavior, state and federal programs, psc mandates, and technology. all of the factors discussed above could adversely affect southern company's, the traditional operating companies', and/or southern power's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. the operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. in addition, significant weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, and winter storms, could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of the traditional operating companies and/or southern power and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity. electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, the traditional operating companies and southern power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, and available cash of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and/or southern power. in addition, volatile or significant weather events could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of i-28 table of contents index to financial statements the traditional operating companies and the generating facilities of the traditional operating companies and southern power. the traditional operating companies and southern power have significant investments in the atlantic and gulf coast regions and southern power has wind investments in oklahoma which could be subject to major storm activity. further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. in the event a traditional operating company experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc. historically, the traditional operating companies from time to time have experienced deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such deficits in the future. any denial by the applicable state psc or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company's and southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional operating company or affecting southern power's customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity for extended periods. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand for electricity could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company's or southern power's and southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. southern company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to southern company. southern company is a holding company and, as such, southern company has no operations of its own. substantially all of southern company's consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. southern company's ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to southern company. prior to funding southern company, southern company's subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions and financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. southern company's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide southern company with funds. in addition, southern company may provide capital contributions or debt financing to subsidiaries under certain circumstances, which would reduce southern company's funds available to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock. a downgrade in the credit ratings of southern company, any of the traditional operating companies, or southern power could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power to post collateral or replace certain indebtedness. there are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any rating agency concludes that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power has deteriorated. changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if one or more rating agencies downgrade southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power, borrowing costs would increase, including automatic increases in interest rates under applicable term loans and credit facilities, the pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, significant collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. any credit rating downgrades could require a traditional operating company or southern power to alter the mix of debt financing currently used, and could require the issuance of secured indebtedness and/or indebtedness with additional restrictive covenants. uncertainty in demand for power can result in lower earnings or higher costs. if demand for power falls short of expectations, it could result in potentially stranded assets. if demand for power exceeds expectations, it could result in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation and transmission facilities. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power each engage in a long-term planning process to estimate the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. this planning process must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation and associated transmission facilities. inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including regional economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation and associated transmission assets in a timely manner or at all, the traditional operating companies may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of additional capacity and the traditional operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. in addition, under southern power's model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market- i-29 table of contents index to financial statements based rates under long-term ppas, southern power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. southern power and/or the traditional operating companies may not be able to extend existing ppas or to find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing ppas expire, or they may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and for southern company. the traditional operating companies and southern power are currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed the southern company system's available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional operating companies or southern power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation and transmission facilities. because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating companies may not be able to recover some or all of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. under southern power's long-term fixed price ppas, southern power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional operating company or southern power and for southern company. the businesses of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. the inability of southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if southern company, any traditional operating company, or southern power is not able to access capital at competitive rates or on favorable terms, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. in addition, southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. each of southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain events or market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or the ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn or uncertainty; bankruptcy or financial distress at an unrelated energy company, financial institution, or sovereign entity; capital markets volatility and disruption, either nationally or internationally; changes in tax policy such as dividend tax rates; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on southern company's facilities or unrelated energy companies' facilities; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. mississippi power's financial condition and its ability to obtain financing needed for normal business operations and completion of construction and start-up of the kemper igcc were adversely affected by (i) the return of approximately $301 million of interest bearing refundable deposits to smepa in june 2015 in connection with the termination of the apa; (ii) the required refund of approximately $371 million of rate collections, including associated carrying costs, and the termination of those rates; and (iii) the required recapture of phase ii tax credits. mississippi power expects to refinance its 2016 debt maturities with bank term loans. mississippi power intends to utilize operating cash flows and lines of credit (to the extent available) as well as loans and, under certain circumstances, equity contributions from southern company to fund the remainder of mississippi power's capital needs. in addition, georgia power's ability to make future borrowings through its term loan credit facility with the federal financing bank is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, as well as certification of compliance with the requirements of the loan guarantee program under title xvii of the energy policy act of 2005, including accuracy of project-related representations and warranties, delivery of updated project-related information and evidence of compliance with the prevailing i-30 table of contents index to financial statements wage requirements of the davis-bacon act of 1931, as amended, and certification from the doe's consulting engineer that proceeds of the advances are used to reimburse certain costs of construction relating to plant vogtle units 3 and 4 that are eligible for financing under the title xvii loan guarantee program. volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan costs and the costs of nuclear decommissioning. the costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefit plans are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, changes in actuarial assumptions, future government regulation, changes in life expectancy, and the frequency and amount of the southern company system's required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual values, as well as a significant decline in the value of investments that fund the pension and other postretirement plans, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in plan liabilities, could increase pension and other postretirement expense, and the southern company system could be required from time to time to fund the pension plan with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations. additionally, alabama power and georgia power each hold significant assets in their nuclear decommissioning trusts to satisfy obligations to decommission alabama power's and georgia power's nuclear plants. the rate of return on assets held in those trusts can significantly impact both the costs of decommissioning and the funding requirements for the trusts. southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable costs. the financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and natural disasters, among other things, could have disruptive effects on insurance markets. the availability of insurance covering risks that southern company, the traditional operating companies, southern power, and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. further, there is no guarantee that the insurance policies maintained by the southern company, the traditional operating companies, and southern power will cover all of the potential exposures or the actual amount of loss incurred. any losses not covered by insurance, or any increases in the cost of applicable insurance, could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of southern company, the traditional operating companies, or southern power. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and southern power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. southern company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures. these risk management policies, limits, and procedures might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, derivative contracts entered for hedging purposes might not off-set the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. the factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. acquisition risks acquisitions and dispositions may not result in anticipated benefits and may present risks not originally contemplated, which may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries have made significant acquisitions and dispositions in the past and may in the future make additional acquisitions and dispositions. southern power, in particular, continually seeks opportunities to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions or sales of assets. southern company and its subsidiaries may face significant competition for acquisition opportunities and there can be no assurance that anticipated acquisitions will be completed on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, these transactions are intended to, but may not, result in the generation of cash or income, the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, or i-31 table of contents index to financial statements the reduction of risk. these transactions may also affect the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. these transactions also involve risks, including: any acquisitions may not result in an increase in income or provide an adequate return on capital or other anticipated benefits; any acquisitions may not be successfully integrated into the acquiring company's operations and internal controls processes; the due diligence conducted prior to an acquisition may not uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure or the acquiring company may not appropriately evaluate the likelihood or quantify the exposure from identified risks; any disposition may result in decreased earnings, revenue, or cash flow; use of cash for acquisitions may adversely affect cash available for capital expenditures and other uses; or any dispositions, investments, or acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, results of operations, or financial condition of southern company or its subsidiaries. southern company and agl resources may encounter difficulties in satisfying the conditions for the completion of the merger, including receipt of all required regulatory approvals, which could delay the completion of the merger or impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the combined company or that could cause either party to abandon the merger. consummation of the merger remains subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions, including, among others, (i) the approval of the california public utilities commission, georgia psc, illinois commerce commission, and maryland psc, new jersey board of public utilities, and other approvals required under applicable state laws, and the approval of the federal communications commission (fcc) for the transfer of control over the fcc licenses of certain subsidiaries of agl resources, (ii) the absence of a judgment, order, decision, injunction, ruling, or other finding or agency requirement of a governmental entity prohibiting the consummation of the merger, and (iii) other customary closing conditions, including (a) subject to certain materiality qualifiers, the accuracy of each party's representations and warranties and (b) each party's performance in all material respects of its obligations under the merger agreement. southern company completed the required state regulatory filings in the fourth quarter 2015 and the required fcc filings in february 2016. on february 24, 2016, a stipulation and settlement agreement between southern company, agl resources, the maryland psc staff, and the maryland office of people's counsel was filed with the maryland psc. the proposed settlement remains subject to the approval of the maryland psc. additionally, southern company received the approval of the virginia state corporation commission in february 2016. these governmental entities may decline to approve the merger or may impose conditions on the completion, or require changes to the terms, of the merger, including restrictions or conditions on the business, operations, or financial performance of the combined company following the merger. satisfying the conditions to completion of the merger may take longer, and could cost more, than southern company expects. any delay in completing the merger or any additional conditions imposed in order to complete the merger may materially adversely affect the benefits that southern company expects to achieve from the merger and the integration of the companies' respective businesses. in addition, conditions to the completion of the merger may fail to be satisfied. subject to certain limitations, either party may terminate the merger agreement if the merger is not consummated by august 23, 2016, which date may be extended by either party to february 23, 2017 if, on august 23, 2016, all conditions to closing other than those relating to (i) regulatory approvals and (ii) the absence of legal restraints preventing consummation of the merger (to the extent relating to regulatory approvals) have been satisfied. any delay in completing the merger, conditions imposed by governmental entities, or failure to complete the merger could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company. failure to complete the merger could negatively impact southern company's stock price and southern company's future business and financial results. completion of the merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval of the transaction by governmental entities will not be obtained or that certain other closing conditions will not be satisfied. if the merger is not i-32 table of contents index to financial statements completed, southern company's ongoing businesses and financial results may be adversely affected and southern company will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: southern company will be required to pay significant costs relating to the merger, including legal, accounting, and financial advisory costs, whether or not the merger is completed; matters relating to the merger (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by southern company management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to southern company; and negative publicity and a negative impression of southern company in the investment community. the occurrence of any of these events, individually or in combination, could cause the share price of southern company to decline if and to the extent that the current market prices reflect an assumption by the market that the merger will be completed. if completed, the merger may not achieve its intended results. southern company entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits. achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the business of agl resources is integrated in an efficient and effective manner, conditions imposed on the merger by federal and state public utility, antitrust, and other regulatory authorities prior to approval, general market and economic conditions, and general competitive factors in the marketplace. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company, and diversion of management's time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company's financial condition, net income, and cash flows. the southern company system will be subject to business uncertainties while the merger is pending that could adversely affect southern company's financial results. uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, suppliers, and customers of the southern company system may have an adverse effect on southern company. these uncertainties may impair the southern company system's ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter and could cause customers, suppliers, and others that deal with the southern company system to seek to change existing business relationships. employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to the completion of the merger, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. if key employees depart or fail to accept employment with the southern company system because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, southern company's financial results could be adversely affected. the pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration of agl resources into the southern company system may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. the diversion of management attention away from day-to-day business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could adversely affect southern company's financial condition, net income, and cash flows. southern company is obligated to complete the merger whether or not it has obtained the required financing. southern company intends to initially fund the cash consideration for the merger using a mix of debt and equity. southern company finances its capital needs on a portfolio basis and expects to issue approximately $8.0 billion in debt prior to closing the merger and approximately $1.2 billion in equity during 2016. this capital is expected to provide funding for the merger, southern power growth opportunities, and other southern company system capital projects. in addition, southern company entered into the $8.1 billion bridge agreement on september 30, 2015 to provide financing for the merger in the event long-term financing is not available. the bridge agreement is subject to various conditions contained in the bridge agreement and the issuance of long-term debt and equity sales to finance the merger will be subject to future market conditions. i-33 table of contents index to financial statements following the merger, stockholders of southern company will own equity interests in a company whose subsidiary owns and operates a natural gas business. agl resources is an energy services holding company whose primary business is the distribution of natural gas through natural gas distribution utilities. agl resources is involved in several other businesses that are mainly related and complementary to its primary business including: retail operations including the provision of natural gas commodity and related services to customers in competitive markets or markets that provide for customer choice, wholesale services including natural gas storage, gas pipeline arbitrage, and natural gas asset management and/or related logistics services, and midstream operations including high deliverability natural gas storage facilities and select pipelines. as a result, the combined company will be subject to various risks to which southern company is not currently subject, including risks related to transporting and storing natural gas. as stockholders of the combined company following the merger, southern company stockholders may be adversely affected by these risks. southern company expects to record goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect its operating results. in accordance with gaap, the merger will be accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting whereby the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at fair value as of the acquisition date. the excess of the purchase price over the fair values of agl resources' assets and liabilities will be recorded as goodwill. the amount of goodwill, which is expected to be material, will be allocated to the appropriate reporting units of the combined company. southern company is required to assess goodwill for impairment at least annually by comparing the fair value of reporting units to the carrying value of those reporting units. to the extent the carrying value of any of those reporting units is greater than the fair value, a second step comparing the implied fair value of goodwill to the carrying amount would be required to determine if the goodwill is impaired. such a potential impairment could result in a material charge that would have a material impact on southern company's future operating results and consolidated balance sheet. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis financial condition and liquidity "market price risk" of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant's financial statements under "financial instruments" in item 8 herein. see also note 10 to the financial statements of southern company, alabama power, and georgia ii-2 table of contents index to financial statements power, note 9 to the financial statements of gulf power and mississippi power, and note 8 to the financial statements of southern power in item 8 herein. ii-3 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management's discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. utility regulatory, legislative, and litigation risks southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses, including rates and charges, service regulations, retail service territories, sales of securities, sales and marketing of energy-related products and services, incurrence of indebtedness, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting and tax policies and practices, physical and cyber security policies and practices, and the construction and operation of electric generating facilities, as well as transmission, storage, transportation, and distribution facilities for the electric and natural gas businesses. for example, the respective state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency must approve the traditional electric operating companies' requested rates for retail electric customers and the natural gas distribution utilities' requested rates for gas distribution operations customers. the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities seek to recover their costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital) through their retail rates, and a state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency, in a future rate proceeding, may alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is allowed or modify the current authorized rate of return. rate refunds may also be required. additionally, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional electric operating companies and by southern power must be approved by the ferc. these wholesale rates could be affected by changes to southern power's and the traditional electric operating companies' ability to conduct business pursuant to ferc market-based rate authority. the ferc rules related to retaining the authority to sell electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale markets are important for the traditional electric operating companies and southern power if they are to remain competitive in the wholesale markets in which they operate. the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries is uncertain. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs or otherwise negatively affect their results of operations. the southern company system's costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with current and future environmental laws, including laws and regulations designed to address air quality, greenhouse gases (ghg), water quality, waste, and other matters and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and/or southern company gas. the southern company system is subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions, ghg, water usage and discharge, release of hazardous substances, and the management and disposal of waste in order to adequately protect the environment. compliance with these environmental requirements requires the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas to commit significant expenditures, including installation and operation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, remediation costs, and/or permits at substantially all of their respective facilities. southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas expect that these expenditures will continue to be significant in the future. the epa has adopted and is in the process of implementing regulations governing air and water quality, including the emission of nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, fine particulate matter, ozone, mercury, and other air pollutants under the clean air act and regulations governing cooling water intake structures and effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants under the clean water act. the epa has also finalized regulations governing the disposal of ccr, including coal ash and gypsum, in landfills and surface impoundments at active power generation plants. the epa has also finalized regulations, which are currently stayed by the u.s. supreme court, limiting co 2 emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. i-20 table of contents index to financial statements additionally, environmental laws and regulations covering the handling and disposal of waste and release of hazardous substances could require the southern company system to incur substantial costs to clean up affected sites, including certain current and former operating sites, and locations affected by historical operations or subject to contractual obligations. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to air quality, ghg, water quality, waste, endangered species, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and/or southern company gas. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as air quality and water standards, has occurred throughout the u.s. this litigation has included claims for damages alleged to have been caused by co 2 and other emissions, ccr, releases of regulated substances, and alleged exposure to regulated substances, and/or requests for injunctive relief in connection with such matters. the southern company system's ultimate environmental compliance strategy, including potential unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures will be affected by the final requirements of new or revised environmental regulations; the time periods over which compliance with regulations is required; individual state implementation of regulations, as applicable; the outcome of any legal challenges to the environmental rules and any additional rulemaking activities in response to legal challenges and court decisions; the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emissions allowances; the impact of future changes in generation and emissions-related technology and costs; and the fuel mix of the electric utilities. compliance costs may arise from existing unit retirements, installation of additional environmental controls, upgrades to the transmission system, closure and groundwater monitoring of ccr facilities, and adding or changing fuel sources for existing units. environmental compliance spending over the next several years may differ materially from the amounts estimated. such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered on a timely basis through regulated rates for the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities or through long-term wholesale agreements for the traditional electric operating companies and southern power. further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for energy, which could negatively affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. additionally, if southern company, any traditional electric operating company, southern power, or southern company gas fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines and/or remediation costs. the southern company system may be exposed to regulatory and financial risks related to the impact of climate change legislation and regulation. since the late 1990s, the u.s. congress, the epa, federal courts, and various states have considered, and at times have adopted, climate change policies and proposals to reduce ghg emissions, mandate renewable energy, and/or impose energy efficiency standards. clean air act regulation and/or future ghg or renewable energy legislation requiring limits or reductions in emissions could cause the southern company system to incur expenditures and make fundamental business changes to achieve limits and reduce ghg emissions. internationally, the united nations framework convention on climate change, which the united states has ratified, considers addressing climate change. the 21 st conference of the parties met in late 2015 and resulted in the adoption of the paris agreement, which established a non-binding universal framework for addressing ghg emissions based on nationally determined contributions. in october 2015, the epa published two final actions that would limit co 2 emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. one of the final actions contains specific emission standards governing co 2 emissions from new, modified, and reconstructed units. the other final action, known as the clean power plan, establishes guidelines for states to develop plans to meet epa-mandated co 2 emission rates for existing units. the epa's final guidelines require state plans to meet interim co 2 performance rates between 2022 and 2029 and final rates in 2030 and thereafter. the proposed guidelines and standards could result in operational restrictions and material compliance costs, including capital expenditures, which could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions. on february 9, 2016, the u.s. supreme court granted a stay of the clean power plan, pending disposition of petitions for its review with the courts. the stay will remain in effect through the resolution of the litigation, whether resolved in the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit or the u.s. supreme court. costs associated with these actions could be significant to the utility industry and the southern company system. however, the ultimate financial and operational impact of the final rules on the southern company system cannot be determined at this time and will depend upon numerous factors, including the southern company system's ongoing review of the final rules; the outcome of legal challenges, including legal challenges filed by the traditional electric operating companies; individual state implementation of the epa's final guidelines, including the potential that state plans impose different standards; additional rulemaking activities in response to legal challenges and related court decisions; the impact of future changes in electric i-21 table of contents index to financial statements generation and emissions-related technology and costs; the impact of future decisions regarding unit retirement and replacement, including the type and amount of any such replacement generation capacity; and the time periods over which compliance will be required. because natural gas is a fossil fuel with lower carbon content relative to other traditional fuels, future carbon constraints may create additional demand for natural gas, both for production of electricity and direct use in homes and businesses. the impact is already being seen in the power production sector due to both environmental regulations and low natural gas costs. future regulation of methane, a ghg and primary constituent of natural gas, could likewise result in increased costs to the southern company system and affect the demand for natural gas as well as the prices charged to customers and the competitive position of natural gas. the net income of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power could be negatively impacted by changes in regulations related to transmission planning processes and competition in the wholesale electric markets. the traditional electric operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. a small percentage of transmission revenues are collected through the wholesale electric tariff but the majority of transmission revenues are collected through retail rates. ferc rules pertaining to regional transmission planning and cost allocation present challenges to transmission planning and the wholesale market structure in the southeast. the key impacts of these rules include: possible disruption of the integrated resource planning processes within the states in the southern company system's service territory; delays and additional processes for developing transmission plans; and possible impacts on state jurisdiction of approving, certifying, and pricing new transmission facilities. the ferc rules related to transmission are intended to spur the development of new transmission infrastructure to promote and encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply as well as facilitate competition in the wholesale market by providing more choices to wholesale power customers. in addition to the impacts on transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations also impact power hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges as well as over-the-counter. finally, technology changes in the power and fuel industries continue to create significant impacts to wholesale transaction cost structures. the impact of these and other such developments and the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand is uncertain. the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power could be adversely affected by these and other changes. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power could be subject to higher costs as a result of implementing and maintaining compliance with the north american electric reliability corporation mandatory reliability standards along with possible associated penalties for non-compliance. owners and operators of bulk power systems, including the traditional electric operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. compliance with or changes in the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional electric operating companies and southern power to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if any traditional electric operating company or southern power is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, such traditional electric operating company or southern power could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas may be materially impacted by potential tax reform legislation. current proposals related to potential tax reform legislation are primarily focused on reducing the corporate income tax rate, allowing 100% of capital expenditures to be deducted, and eliminating the interest deduction. the ultimate impact of any tax reform proposals, including potential changes to the availability or realizability of investment tax credits and ptcs, is dependent upon the final form of any legislation enacted and the related transition rules and cannot be determined at this time, but could have a material impact on the financial statements of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas. i-22 table of contents index to financial statements operational risks the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if the subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of the electric utilities' generating, transmission, and distribution facilities and southern company gas' natural gas distribution and storage facilities and the successful performance of necessary corporate functions. there are many risks that could affect these operations and performance of corporate functions, including: operator error or failure of equipment or processes; accidents or explosions; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks (physical and/or cyber); fuel or material supply interruptions; transmission disruption or capacity constraints, including with respect to the southern company system's transmission, storage, and transportation facilities and third party transmission, storage, and transportation facilities; compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards; implementation of new technologies; information technology system failure; cyber intrusion; an environmental event, such as a spill or release; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, droughts, hurricanes and other storms, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or natural gas distribution or storage facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional electric operating company, southern power, or southern company gas and of southern company. operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, safety, health, regulatory, natural disasters, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of the nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units. the six existing units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 mws, or 8%, of the southern company system's electric generation capacity as of december 31, 2016. in addition, these units generated approximately 23% and 24% of the total kwhs generated by alabama power and georgia power, respectively, in the year ended december 31, 2016. in addition, southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. due solely to the increase in nuclear generating capacity, the below risks are expected to increase incrementally once plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are operational. nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, safety, health, operational, and financial risks such as: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health and safety resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive material, including spent nuclear fuel; uncertainties with respect to the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and the need for longer term on-site storage; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of licensed lives and the ability to maintain and anticipate adequate capital reserves for decommissioning; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the nuclear operations of alabama power and georgia power or those of other commercial nuclear facility owners in the u.s.; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; significant capital expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair of these facilities, including repairs and upgrades required by the nrc; the threat of a possible terrorist attack, including a potential cyber security attack; and the potential impact of an accident or natural disaster. it is possible that damages, decommissioning, or other costs could exceed the amount of decommissioning trusts or external insurance coverage, including statutorily required nuclear incident insurance. i-23 table of contents index to financial statements the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance with nrc licensing and safety-related requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units or require additional safety measures at new and existing units. moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the u.s., including facilities owned and operated by third parties, could require alabama power and georgia power to make material contributory payments. in addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict. transporting and storing natural gas involves risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. southern company gas' natural gas distribution and storage activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents, explosions, and mechanical problems, which could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of its operations. the location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas could increase the level of damage resulting from these risks. the occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect southern company gas' and southern company's financial condition and results of operations. physical or cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, could impact the ability of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas face the risk of physical and cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, against their respective generation and storage facilities, the transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport energy, and their information technology systems and network infrastructure, which could negatively impact the ability of the traditional electric operating companies or southern power to generate, transport, and deliver power, or otherwise operate their respective facilities, or the ability of southern company gas to distribute or store natural gas, or otherwise operate its facilities, in the most efficient manner or at all. in addition, physical or cyber attacks against key suppliers or service providers could have a similar effect on southern company and its subsidiaries. the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas operate in highly regulated industries that require the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of interconnected distribution systems. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers, employees, and stockholders, and other confidential information. in some cases, administration of certain functions is outsourced to service providers that could be targets of cyber attacks. the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas face on-going threats to their assets. despite the implementation of robust security measures, all assets are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error, natural disasters, technological failure, or internal or external physical or cyber attacks. if the traditional electric operating companies', southern power's, or southern company gas' assets were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached and were not recovered in a timely way, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, or southern company gas may be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. any physical security breach, cyber breach or theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data may also subject the applicable traditional electric operating company, southern power, or southern company gas to penalties and claims from regulators or other third parties. these events could harm the reputation of and negatively affect the financial results of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, or southern company gas through lost revenues, costs to recover and repair damage, and costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks. the southern company system may not be able to obtain adequate natural gas and other fuel supplies required to operate the traditional electric operating companies' and southern power's electric generating plants or serve southern company gas' natural gas customers. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and biomass, as applicable, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting i-24 table of contents index to financial statements any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power to operate certain facilities, which could result in higher fuel and operating costs and potentially reduce the net income of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power and southern company. southern company gas' primary business is the distribution and sale of natural gas through its regulated and unregulated subsidiaries. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane or a pipeline failure. southern company gas also relies on natural gas pipelines and other storage and transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver natural gas to wholesale markets and to southern company gas' distribution systems. the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility may have a material impact on the supply and cost of natural gas. disruption in natural gas supplies could limit the ability to fulfill these contractual obligations. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power have become more dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. in many instances, the cost of purchased power for the traditional electric operating companies and southern power is influenced by natural gas prices. historically, natural gas prices have been more volatile than prices of other fuels. in recent years, domestic natural gas prices have been depressed by robust supplies, including production from shale gas. these market conditions, together with additional regulation of coal-fired generating units, have increased the traditional electric operating companies' reliance on natural gas-fired generating units. the traditional electric operating companies are also dependent on coal for a portion of their electric generating capacity. the traditional electric operating companies depend on coal supply contracts, and the counterparties to these agreements may not fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional electric operating companies. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or technical problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the traditional electric operating companies. in addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the traditional electric operating companies under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional electric operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional electric operating companies may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be recoverable through rates. the revenues of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, the failure of the traditional electric operating companies or southern power to satisfy minimum requirements under the ppas, or the failure to renew the ppas or successfully remarket the related generating capacity could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power's generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas. southern power's top three customers, georgia power, duke energy corporation, and san diego gas &amp; electric accounted for 16.5%, 7.8%, and 5.7%, respectively, of southern power's total revenues for the year ended december 31, 2016. in addition, the traditional electric operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power and of southern company. although the credit evaluations undertaken and contractual protections implemented by southern power and the traditional electric operating companies take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than predicted or specified in the applicable contract. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional electric operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. as an example, gulf power had long-term sales contracts to cover 100% of its ownership share of plant scherer unit 3 (205 mws) and these capacity revenues represented 82% of gulf power's total wholesale capacity revenues for 2015. following contract expirations at the end of 2015 and the end of may 2016, gulf power's remaining contracted sales from the unit cover approximately 24% of gulf power's ownership of the unit through 2019. the expiration of these contracts had a material negative impact on gulf power's earnings in 2016 and may continue to have a material negative impact in future years. in addition, the failure of the traditional electric operating companies or southern power to satisfy minimum operational or availability requirements under these ppas could result in payment of damages or termination of the ppas. the asset management arrangements between southern company gas' wholesale gas services and southern company gas' regulated operating companies, and between southern company gas' wholesale gas services and its non-affiliated customers, may not be renewed or may be renewed at lower levels, which could have a significant impact on southern company gas' financial results. southern company gas' wholesale gas services currently manages the storage and transportation assets of atlanta gas light company, virginia natural gas, inc., elizabethtown gas, florida city gas, chattanooga gas company, and elkton gas. the i-25 table of contents index to financial statements profits earned from the management of these affiliate assets are shared with the respective affiliate's customers (and for atlanta gas light company with the georgia psc's universal service fund), except for chattanooga gas company and elkton gas where wholesale gas services are provided under annual fixed-fee agreements. these asset management agreements are subject to regulatory approval and such agreements may not be renewed or may be renewed with less favorable terms. southern company gas' wholesale gas services also has asset management agreements with certain non-affiliated customers and its financial results could be significantly impacted if these agreements are not renewed or are amended or renewed with less favorable terms. sustained low natural gas prices could reduce the demand for these types of asset management arrangements. increased competition could negatively impact southern company's and its subsidiaries' revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. the energy industry is highly competitive and complex and the southern company system faces increasing competition from other companies that supply energy or generation and storage technologies. changes in technology may make the southern company system's electric generating facilities owned by the traditional electric operating companies and southern power less competitive. southern company gas' business is dependent on natural gas prices remaining competitive as compared to other forms of energy. southern company gas also faces competition in its unregulated markets. a key element of the business models of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation and storage technologies that produce and store power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, solar cells, and batteries. advances in technology or changes in laws or regulations could reduce the cost of these or other alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost effective distributed generation that allows for increased self-generation by customers. broader use of distributed generation by retail energy customers may also result from customers' changing perceptions of the merits of utilizing existing generation technology or tax or other economic incentives. additionally, a state psc or legislature may modify certain aspects of the traditional electric operating companies' business as a result of these advances in technology. it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by the traditional electric operating companies and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, or southern power. southern company gas' gas marketing services is affected by competition from other energy marketers providing similar services in southern company gas' service territories, most notably in illinois and georgia. southern company gas' wholesale gas services competes for sales with national and regional full-service energy providers, energy merchants and producers, and pipelines based on the ability to aggregate competitively-priced commodities with transportation and storage capacity. southern company gas competes with natural gas facilities in the gulf coast region of the u.s., as the majority of the existing and proposed high deliverability salt-dome natural gas storage facilities in north america are located in the gulf coast region. storage values have begun to recover from the declines experienced over the past several years due to low natural gas prices and low volatility and southern company gas expects this trend to continue during the remainder of 2017. if new technologies become cost competitive and achieve sufficient scale, the market share of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities or natural gas distribution and storage facilities could be reduced. additionally, southern company gas' market share could be reduced if southern company gas cannot remain price competitive in its unregulated markets. if state pscs or other applicable state regulatory agencies fail to adjust rates to reflect the impact of any changes in loads, increasing self-generation, and the growth of distributed generation, the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of southern company and the affected traditional electric operating company or southern company gas could be materially adversely affected. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact southern company's and its subsidiaries' results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges such as lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, including with the workforce needs associated with major construction projects and ongoing operations. the southern company system's costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs, and safety costs, may rise. failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect southern company and its subsidiaries' ability to manage and operate their businesses. if southern company i-26 table of contents index to financial statements and its subsidiaries are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. construction risks southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and/or southern company gas may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. also, existing facilities of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas require ongoing capital expenditures, including those to meet environmental standards. general the businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new facilities and, for the traditional electric operating companies, capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, and, for southern company gas, capital improvements to natural gas distribution and storage facilities, including those to meet environmental standards. certain of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. southern company gas is replacing certain pipelines in its natural gas distribution system and is involved in three new gas pipeline construction projects. the southern company system intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, expanding or updating existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. these types of projects are long term in nature and in some cases include the development and construction of facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. the completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; changes in labor costs and productivity; work stoppages; contractor or supplier delay or non-performance under construction, operating, or other agreements or non-performance by other major participants in construction projects; delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, tax credits, and other regulatory authorizations; delays associated with start-up activities, including major equipment failure and system integration, and/or operational performance (including additional costs to satisfy any operational parameters ultimately adopted by any psc or other applicable state regulatory agency); operational readiness, including specialized operator training and required site safety programs; impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; the outcome of legal challenges to projects, including legal challenges to regulatory approvals; failure to construct in accordance with permitting and licensing requirements; failure to satisfy any environmental performance standards and the requirements of tax credits and other incentives; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; other unforeseen engineering or design problems; changes in project design or scope; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; and unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor, and increased financing costs as a result of changes in market interest rates or as a result of construction schedule delays. if a traditional electric operating company, southern power, or southern company gas is unable to complete the development or construction of a project or decides to delay or cancel construction of a project, it may not be able to recover its investment in that project and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. additionally, each southern company gas pipeline construction project involves separate joint venture participants. even if a construction project (including a joint venture construction project) is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and the applicable traditional electric operating company or the natural gas distribution utility may not be able to recover such expenditures through regulated rates. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional electric operating company, southern power, or southern company gas and of southern company. construction delays could result in the loss of otherwise available investment tax credits, ptcs, and other tax incentives. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional electric operating company, southern power, or southern company gas and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. i-27 table of contents index to financial statements once facilities become operational, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional electric operating companies' existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide safe and reliable operations. the two largest construction projects currently underway in the southern company system are the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 and the kemper igcc. in addition, southern power has 567 mws of natural gas and renewable generation under construction at three project sites. plant vogtle units 3 and 4 construction and rate recovery southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other co-owners, is overseeing the construction of and will operate plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (each, an approximately 1,100 mw ap1000 nuclear generating unit). georgia power owns 45.7% of the new units. there have been technical and procedural challenges to the construction and licensing of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, at the federal and state level, and additional challenges may arise as construction proceeds. under the terms of the engineering, procurement, and construction contract between the vogtle owners and the contractor (vogtle 3 and 4 agreement), the vogtle owners agreed to pay a purchase price subject to certain price escalations and adjustments, including fixed escalation amounts and index-based adjustments, as well as adjustments for change orders, and performance bonuses for early completion and unit performance. the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement also provides for liquidated damages upon the contractor's failure to fulfill the schedule and performance guarantees, subject to an aggregate cap of 10% of the contract price, or approximately $920 million to $930 million. in addition, the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement provides for limited cost sharing by the vogtle owners for contractor costs under certain conditions (which georgia power has not been notified have occurred), with maximum additional capital costs under this provision attributable to georgia power (based on georgia power's ownership interest) of approximately $114 million. each vogtle owner is severally (and not jointly) liable for its proportionate share, based on its ownership interest, of all amounts owed to the contractor under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement. georgia power's proportionate share is 45.7%. in the event of certain credit rating downgrades of any vogtle owner, such vogtle owner will be required to provide a letter of credit or other credit enhancement. certain obligations of westinghouse have been guaranteed by toshiba corporation (toshiba), westinghouse's parent company. in the event of certain credit rating downgrades of toshiba, westinghouse is required to provide letters of credit or other credit enhancement. in december 2015, toshiba experienced credit rating downgrades and westinghouse provided the vogtle owners with $920 million of letters of credit. these letters of credit remain in place in accordance with the terms of the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement. on february 14, 2017, toshiba announced preliminary earnings results for the period ended december 31, 2016, which included a substantial goodwill impairment charge at westinghouse attributed to increased cost estimates to complete its u.s. nuclear projects, including plant vogtle units 3 and 4. toshiba also warned that it will likely be in a negative equity position as a result of the charges. at the same time, toshiba reaffirmed its commitment to its u.s. nuclear projects with implementation of management changes and increased oversight. an inability or failure by the contractor to perform its obligations under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement could have a material impact on the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. under the terms of the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement, the contractor does not have a right to terminate the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement for convenience. the contractor may terminate the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement under certain circumstances, including certain vogtle owner suspension or delays of work, action by a governmental authority to permanently stop work, certain breaches of the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement by the vogtle owners, vogtle owner insolvency, and certain other events. in the event of an abandonment of work by the contractor, the maximum liability of the contractor under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement is increased significantly, but remains subject to limitations. the vogtle owners may terminate the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement at any time for convenience, provided that the vogtle owners will be required to pay certain termination costs. in 2009, the georgia psc voted to certify construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 with a certified capital cost of $4.418 billion. on december 20, 2016, the georgia psc voted to approve a settlement agreement (vogtle cost settlement agreement) resolving certain prudence matters, including that (i) the in-service capital cost forecast will be adjusted to $5.680 billion (revised forecast), which includes a contingency of $240 million above georgia power's current forecast of $5.440 billion, (ii) capital costs incurred up to the revised forecast will be presumed to be reasonable and prudent with the burden of proof on any party challenging such costs, and (iii) georgia power would have the burden to show that any capital costs above the revised forecast are reasonable and prudent. under the terms of the vogtle cost settlement agreement, the certified in-service capital cost for purposes of calculating georgia power's nuclear construction cost recovery (nccr) tariff will remain at $4.418 billion. construction capital costs above $4.418 billion will accrue allowance for funds used during construction (afudc) through the date each unit is placed in service. the roe used to calculate the nccr tariff was reduced from 10.95% (the roe rate setting point authorized by the i-28 table of contents index to financial statements georgia psc in the alternative rate plan approved by the georgia psc for the years 2014 through 2016) to 10.00% effective january 1, 2016. for purposes of the afudc calculation, the roe on costs between $4.418 billion and $5.440 billion will also be 10.00% and the roe on any amounts above $5.440 billion would be georgia power's average cost of long-term debt. if the georgia psc adjusts georgia power's roe rate setting point in a rate case prior to plant vogtle units 3 and 4 being placed into retail rate base, then the roe for purposes of calculating both the nccr tariff and afudc will likewise be 95 basis points lower than the revised roe rate setting point. if plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are not placed in service by december 31, 2020, then (i) the roe for purposes of calculating the nccr tariff will be reduced an additional 300 basis points, or $8 million per month, and may, at the georgia psc's discretion, be accrued to be used for the benefit of customers, until such time as the units are placed in service and (ii) the roe used to calculate afudc will be georgia power's average cost of long-term debt. under the terms of the vogtle cost settlement agreement, plant vogtle units 3 and 4 will be placed into retail rate base on december 31, 2020 or when placed in service, whichever is later. the georgia psc will determine for retail ratemaking purposes the process of transitioning plant vogtle units 3 and 4 from a construction project to an operating plant no later than georgia power's base rate case required to be filed by july 1, 2019. as of december 31, 2016, georgia power had borrowed $2.6 billion related to plant vogtle units 3 and 4 costs through a loan guarantee agreement between georgia power and the doe and a multi-advance credit facility among georgia power, the doe, and the ffb. see note 6 to the financial statements of southern company and georgia power under "doe loan guarantee borrowings" in item 8 herein for additional information, including applicable covenants, events of default, and mandatory prepayment events. processes are in place that are designed to assure compliance with the requirements specified in the westinghouse design control document for the ap1000 nuclear reactor and the combined construction and operating licenses, including inspections by southern nuclear and the nrc that occur throughout construction. as a result of such compliance processes, certain license amendment requests have been filed and approved or are pending before the nrc. various design and other licensing-based compliance matters, including the timely resolution of inspections, tests, analyses, and acceptance criteria and the related approvals by the nrc, may arise as construction proceeds, which may result in additional license amendments or require other resolution. if any license amendment requests or other licensing-based compliance issues are not resolved in a timely manner, there may be delays in the project schedule that could result in increased costs either to the vogtle owners or the contractor or to both. in addition to toshiba's reaffirmation of its commitment, the contractor provided georgia power with revised forecasted in-service dates of december 2019 and september 2020 for plant vogtle units 3 and 4, respectively. georgia power is currently reviewing a preliminary summary schedule supporting these dates that ultimately must be reconciled to a detailed integrated project schedule. as construction continues, the risk remains that challenges with contractor performance including labor productivity, fabrication, delivery, assembly, and installation of plant systems, structures, and components, or other issues could arise and may further impact project schedule and cost. georgia power expects the contractor to employ mitigation efforts and believes the contractor is responsible for any related costs under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement. georgia power estimates its financing costs for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 to be approximately $30 million per month, with total construction period financing costs of approximately $2.5 billion. additionally, georgia power estimates its owner's costs to be approximately $6 million per month, net of delay liquidated damages. the revised forecasted in-service dates are within the timeframe contemplated in the vogtle cost settlement agreement and would enable both units to qualify for ptcs the internal revenue service has allocated to each of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, which require the applicable unit to be placed in service before 2021. the net present value of the ptcs is estimated at approximately $400 million per unit. future claims by the contractor or georgia power (on behalf of the vogtle owners) could arise throughout construction. these claims may be resolved through formal and informal dispute resolution procedures under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement and, under enhanced dispute resolution procedures, may be resolved through litigation after the completion of nuclear fuel load for both units. see note 3 to the financial statements of southern company under "regulatory matters - georgia power - nuclear construction" and of georgia power under "retail regulatory matters - nuclear construction" for additional information regarding plant vogtle units 3 and 4. kemper igcc construction and rate recovery mississippi power continues to progress toward completing the construction and start-up of the kemper igcc, which was approved by the mississippi psc in the 2010 certificate of public convenience and necessity (cpcn) proceedings, subject to a construction cost cap of $2.88 billion, net of $245 million of grants awarded to the project by the doe under the clean coal power initiative round 2 (initial doe grants) and excluding the cost of the lignite mine and equipment, the cost of the co 2 pipeline facilities, afudc, and certain general exceptions, including change of law, force majeure, and beneficial capital i-29 table of contents index to financial statements (which exists when mississippi power demonstrates that the purpose and effect of the construction cost increase is to produce efficiencies that will result in a neutral or favorable effect on customers relative to the original proposal for the cpcn) (cost cap exceptions). the current cost estimate for the kemper igcc in total is approximately $6.99 billion, which includes approximately $5.64 billion of costs subject to the construction cost cap and is net of the $137 million in additional grants from the doe received on april 8, 2016 (additional doe grants), which are expected to be used to reduce future rate impacts to customers. mississippi power does not intend to seek any rate recovery for any related costs that exceed the $2.88 billion cost cap, net of the initial doe grants and excluding the cost cap exceptions. through december 31, 2016, in the aggregate, southern company and mississippi power have incurred charges of $2.76 billion ($1.71 billion after tax) as a result of changes in the cost estimate above the cost cap for the kemper igcc. the current cost estimate includes costs through march 15, 2017. in addition to the current construction cost estimate, mississippi power is identifying potential improvement projects that ultimately may be completed subsequent to placing the remainder of the kemper igcc in service. if completed, such improvement projects would be expected to enhance plant performance, safety, and/or operations. as of december 31, 2016, approximately $12 million of related potential costs has been included in the estimated loss on the kemper igcc. other projects have yet to be fully evaluated, have not been included in the current cost estimate, and may be subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap. any further changes in the estimated costs of the kemper igcc subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap, net of the initial doe grants and excluding the cost cap exceptions, will be reflected in southern company's and mississippi power's statements of income and these changes could be material. the expected completion date of the kemper igcc at the time of the mississippi psc's approval in 2010 was may 2014. the combined cycle and the associated common facilities portion of the kemper igcc were placed in service in august 2014. the remainder of the plant, including the gasifiers and the gas clean-up facilities, represents first-of-a-kind technology. the initial production of syngas began on july 14, 2016 for gasifier "b" and on september 13, 2016 for gasifier "a." mississippi power achieved integrated operation of both gasifiers on january 29, 2017, including the production of electricity from syngas in both combustion turbines. mississippi power subsequently completed a brief outage to repair and make modifications to further improve the plant's ability to achieve sustained operations sufficient to support placing the plant in service for customers. efforts to reach sustained operation of both gasifiers and production of electricity from syngas in both combustion turbines are in process. the plant has produced and captured co 2 , and has produced sulfuric acid and ammonia, all of acceptable quality under the related off-take agreements. on february 20, 2017, mississippi power determined gasifier "b," which has been producing syngas over 60% of the time since early november 2016, requires an outage to remove ash deposits from its ash removal system. gasifier "a" and combustion turbine "a" are expected to remain in operation, producing electricity from syngas, as well as producing chemical by-products. as a result, mississippi power currently expects the remainder of the kemper igcc, including both gasifiers, will be placed in service by mid-march 2017. any extension of the in-service date beyond mid-march 2017 is currently estimated to result in additional base costs of approximately $25 million to $35 million per month, which includes maintaining necessary levels of start-up labor, materials, and fuel, as well as operational resources required to execute start-up and commissioning activities. additional costs may be required for remediation of any further equipment and/or design issues identified. any extension of the in-service date with respect to the kemper igcc beyond mid-march 2017 would also increase costs for the cost cap exceptions, which are not subject to the $2.88 billion cost cap established by the mississippi psc. these costs include afudc, which is currently estimated to total approximately $16 million per month, as well as carrying costs and operating expenses on kemper igcc assets placed in service and consulting and legal fees of approximately $3 million per month. further cost increases and/or extensions of the expected in-service date may result from factors including, but not limited to, difficulties integrating the systems required for sustained operations, sustaining nitrogen supply, major equipment failure, unforeseen engineering or design problems including any repairs and/or modifications to systems, and/or operational performance (including additional costs to satisfy any operational parameters ultimately adopted by the mississippi psc). upon placing the remainder of the plant in service, mississippi power will be primarily focused on completing the regulatory cost recovery process. in december 2015, the mississippi psc issued an order, based on a stipulation between mississippi power and the mississippi public utilities staff (mpus), authorizing rates that provide for the recovery of approximately $126 million annually related to kemper igcc assets previously placed in service. on august 17, 2016, the mississippi psc established a discovery docket to manage all filings related to kemper igcc prudence issues. on october 3, 2016 and november 17, 2016, mississippi power made filings in this docket including a review and explanation of differences between the kemper igcc project estimate set forth in the 2010 cpcn proceedings and the most recent kemper igcc project estimate, as well as comparisons of current cost estimates and current expected plant operational parameters to the estimates presented in the 2010 cpcn proceedings for the first five years after the kemper igcc is placed in service. compared to amounts presented in the 2010 cpcn proceedings, operations and maintenance expenses have increased an average of $105 million annually and maintenance capital has increased an average of $44 million annually for the first full five years of operations for the kemper igcc. additionally, while the current estimated operational availability i-30 table of contents index to financial statements estimates reflect ultimate results similar to those presented in the 2010 cpcn proceedings, the ramp up period for the current estimates reflects a lower starting point and a slower escalation rate. in the fourth quarter 2016, as a part of the integrated resource plan process, the southern company system completed its regular annual updated fuel forecast, the 2017 annual fuel forecast. this updated fuel forecast reflected significantly lower long-term estimated costs for natural gas than were previously projected. as a result of the updated long-term natural gas forecast, as well as the revised operating expense projections reflected in the discovery docket filings, on february 21, 2017, mississippi power filed an updated project economic viability analysis of the kemper igcc as required under the mississippi psc's april 2012 order confirming authorization of the kemper igcc. the project economic viability analysis measures the life cycle economics of the kemper igcc compared to feasible alternatives, natural gas combined cycle generating units, under a variety of scenarios and considering fuel, operating and capital costs, and operating characteristics, as well as federal and state taxes and incentives. the reduction in the projected long-term natural gas prices in the 2017 annual fuel forecast and, to a lesser extent, the increase in the estimated kemper igcc operating costs, negatively impact the updated project economic viability analysis. after the remainder of the plant is placed in service, afudc equity of approximately $11 million per month will no longer be recorded in income, and mississippi power expects to incur approximately $25 million per month in depreciation, taxes, operations and maintenance expenses, interest expense, and regulatory costs in excess of current rates. mississippi power expects to file a request for authority from the mississippi psc and the ferc to defer all kemper igcc costs incurred after the in-service date that cannot be capitalized, are not included in current rates, and are not required to be charged against earnings as a result of the $2.88 billion cost cap until such time as the mississippi psc completes its review and includes the resulting allowable costs in rates. in the event that the mississippi psc does not grant mississippi power's request for an accounting order, these monthly expenses will be charged to income as incurred and will not be recoverable through rates. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot now be determined but could have a material impact on southern company's and mississippi power's result of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. mississippi power is required to file a rate case to address kemper igcc cost recovery by june 3, 2017 (2017 rate case). costs incurred through december 31, 2016 totaled $6.73 billion, net of the initial and additional doe grants. of this total, $2.76 billion of costs has been recognized through income as a result of the $2.88 billion cost cap, $0.84 billion is included in retail and wholesale rates for the assets in service, and the remainder will be the subject of the 2017 rate case to be filed with the mississippi psc and expected subsequent wholesale municipal and rural associations rate filing with the ferc. mississippi power continues to believe that all costs related to the kemper igcc have been prudently incurred in accordance with the requirements of the 2012 mpsc order confirming the cpcn originally approved by the mississippi psc in 2010 authorizing the acquisition, construction, and operation of the kemper igcc. mississippi power also recognizes significant areas of potential challenge during future regulatory proceedings (and any subsequent, related legal challenges) exist. as described further herein, these challenges include, but are not limited to, prudence issues associated with capital costs, financing costs (afudc), and future operating costs, net of chemical revenues; potential operating parameters; income tax issues; costs deferred as regulatory assets; and the 15% portion of the project previously contracted to smepa. although the 2017 rate case has not yet been filed and is subject to future developments with either the kemper igcc or the mississippi psc, consistent with its approach in the 2013 and 2015 rate proceedings in accordance with the law passed in 2013 authorizing multi-year rate plans, mississippi power is developing both a traditional rate case requesting full cost recovery of the $3.31 billion (net of $137 million in additional doe grants) not currently in rates and a rate mitigation plan that together represent mississippi power's probable filing strategy. mississippi power also expects that timely resolution of the 2017 rate case will likely require a negotiated settlement agreement. in the event an agreement acceptable to both mississippi power and the mpus (and other parties) can be negotiated and ultimately approved by the mississippi psc, it is reasonably possible that full regulatory recovery of all kemper igcc costs will not occur. the impact of such an agreement on southern company's and mississippi power's financial statements would depend on the method, amount, and type of cost recovery ultimately excluded. certain costs, including operating costs, would be recorded to income in the period incurred, while other costs, including investment-related costs, would be charged to income when it is probable they will not be recovered and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. in the event an agreement acceptable to the parties cannot be reached, mississippi power intends to fully litigate its request for full recovery through the mississippi psc regulatory process and any subsequent legal challenges. mississippi power has evaluated various scenarios in connection with its processes to prepare the 2017 rate case and southern company and mississippi power have recognized an additional $80 million charge to income, which is the estimated minimum probable amount of the $3.31 billion of kemper igcc costs not currently in rates that would not be recovered under the probable rate mitigation plan to be filed by june 3, 2017. given the variety of potential scenarios and the uncertainty of the outcome of future regulatory proceedings with the mississippi psc (and any subsequent related legal challenges), the ultimate i-31 table of contents index to financial statements outcome of these matters cannot now be determined but could result in further charges that could have a material impact on southern company's and mississippi power's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. southern company and mississippi power are defendants in various lawsuits that allege improper disclosure about the kemper igcc. while southern company and mississippi power believe that these lawsuits are without merit, an adverse outcome could have a material impact on southern company's and mississippi power's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, the sec is conducting a formal investigation of southern company and mississippi power concerning the estimated costs and expected in-service date of the kemper igcc. southern company and mississippi power believe the investigation is focused primarily on periods subsequent to 2010 and on accounting matters, disclosure controls and procedures, and internal controls over financial reporting associated with the kemper igcc. the ultimate outcome of these matters, including the resolution of legal challenges, determinations of prudency, and the specific manner of recovery of prudently-incurred costs, is subject to further regulatory actions and cannot be determined at this time. see note 3 to the financial statements of southern company and mississippi power under "integrated coal gasification combined cycle" for additional information regarding the kemper igcc. southern company gas' significant investments in pipelines and pipeline development projects involve financial and execution risks. southern company gas has made significant investments in existing pipelines and pipeline development projects. many of the existing pipelines are, and when completed many of the pipeline development projects will be, operated by third parties. if one of these agents fails to perform in a proper manner, the value of the investment could decline and southern company gas could lose part or all of the investment. in addition, from time to time, southern company gas may be required to contribute additional capital to a pipeline joint venture or guarantee the obligations of such joint venture. with respect to certain pipeline development projects, southern company gas will rely on its joint venture partners for construction management and will not exercise direct control over the process. all of the pipeline development projects are dependent on contractors for the successful and timely completion of the projects. further, the development of pipeline projects involves numerous regulatory, environmental, construction, safety, political, and legal uncertainties and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. these projects may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. there may be cost overruns and construction difficulties that cause southern company gas' capital expenditures to exceed its initial expectations. moreover, southern company gas' revenues will not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a pipeline project. pipeline construction occurs over an extended period of time and southern company gas will not receive material increases in revenues until the project is placed in service. the occurrence of any of the foregoing events could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company gas and southern company. financial, economic, and market risks the electric generation and energy marketing operations of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power and the natural gas operations of southern company gas are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in energy prices and fuel costs, which may reduce southern company's, the traditional electric operating companies', southern power's, and/or southern company gas' revenues and increase costs. the generation, energy marketing, and natural gas operations of the southern company system are subject to changes in energy prices and fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power, decrease the amount received from the sale of energy, and/or make electric generating facilities less competitive. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. among the factors that could influence energy prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, biomass, and other fuels, as applicable, used in the generation facilities of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power and, in the case of natural gas, distributed by southern company gas, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity and natural gas markets; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity and natural gas; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints, disruptions, or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; i-32 table of contents index to financial statements the economy in the southern company system's service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on demand for electricity and the demand for fuels, including natural gas; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, or southern company gas and southern company. for the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas' regulated gas distribution operations, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, or southern company gas and southern company. historically, the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel and/or purchased gas cost balances and may experience such balances in the future. while the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas are generally authorized to recover fuel and/or purchased gas costs through cost recovery clauses, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred, and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern company gas and southern company. southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, customer behaviors, including increased energy conservation, and adoption patterns of technologies by the customers of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas. the consumption and use of energy are fundamentally linked to economic activity. this relationship is affected over time by changes in the economy, customer behaviors, and technologies. any economic downturn could negatively impact customer growth and usage per customer, thus reducing the sales of energy and revenues. additionally, any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets, both nationally and internationally, could negatively affect the financial stability of customers and counterparties of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas. outside of economic disruptions, changes in customer behaviors in response to energy efficiency programs, changing conditions and preferences, or changes in the adoption of technologies could affect the relationship of economic activity to the consumption of energy. both federal and state programs exist to influence how customers use energy, and several of the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas have psc or other applicable state regulatory agency mandates to promote energy efficiency. conservation programs could impact the financial results of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas in different ways. for example, if any traditional electric operating company or southern company gas is required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional electric operating company or southern company gas and southern company. customers could also voluntarily reduce their consumption of energy in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy prices, or individual conservation efforts. in addition, the adoption of technology by customers can have both positive and negative impacts on sales. many new technologies utilize less energy than in the past. however, new electric and natural gas technologies such as electric and natural gas vehicles can create additional demand. the southern company system uses best available methods and experience to incorporate the effects of changes in customer behavior, state and federal programs, psc or other applicable state regulatory agency mandates, and technology, but the southern company system's planning processes may not appropriately estimate and incorporate these effects. all of the factors discussed above could adversely affect southern company's, the traditional electric operating companies', southern power's, and/or southern company gas' results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. the operating results of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. in addition, significant weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, and winter storms, could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and/or southern company gas and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity. electric power and natural gas supply are generally seasonal businesses. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter months. in most of the areas the traditional electric operating companies serve, electric power sales peak during the summer, i-33 table of contents index to financial statements while in most of the areas southern company gas serves, natural gas demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas have historically sold less power and natural gas when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, and available cash of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and/or southern company gas. in addition, volatile or significant weather events could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional electric operating companies, the generating facilities of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power, and the natural gas distribution and storage facilities of southern company gas. the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas have significant investments in the atlantic and gulf coast regions and southern power has wind and natural gas investments in various states, including maine, minnesota, oklahoma, and texas, which could be subject to severe weather, as well as solar investments in various states, including california, which could be subject to natural disasters. further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. in the event a traditional electric operating company or southern company gas experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency. historically, the traditional electric operating companies from time to time have experienced deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such deficits in the future. any denial by the applicable state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional electric operating company's or southern company gas' and southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional electric operating company or southern company gas or affecting southern power's customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for energy for extended periods. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand for energy could have a material negative impact on a traditional electric operating company's, southern power's, or southern company gas' and southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. acquisitions, dispositions, or other strategic ventures or investments may not result in anticipated benefits and may present risks not originally contemplated, which may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries have made significant acquisitions and investments in the past and may in the future make additional acquisitions, dispositions, or other strategic ventures or investments. southern company and its subsidiaries continually seek opportunities to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions or sales of assets. southern company and its subsidiaries may face significant competition for transactional opportunities and anticipated transactions may not be completed on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, these transactions are intended to, but may not, result in the generation of cash or income, the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, or the reduction of risk. these transactions may also affect the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. these transactions also involve risks, including: they may not result in an increase in income or provide an adequate return on capital or other anticipated benefits; they may result in southern company or its subsidiaries entering into new or additional lines of business, which may have new or different business or operational risks; they may not be successfully integrated into the acquiring company's operations and/or internal control processes; the due diligence conducted prior to a transaction may not uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure or the acquiring company may not appropriately evaluate the likelihood or quantify the exposure from identified risks; they may result in decreased earnings, revenues, or cash flow; expected benefits of a transaction may be dependent on the cooperation or performance of a counterparty; or for the traditional electric operating companies, costs associated with such investments that were expected to be recovered through rates may not be recoverable. i-34 table of contents index to financial statements southern company and southern company gas are holding companies and are dependent on cash flows from their respective subsidiaries to meet their ongoing and future financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness and, for southern company, to pay dividends on its common stock. southern company and southern company gas are holding companies and, as such, they have no operations of their own. substantially all of southern company's and southern company gas' respective consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. a significant portion of southern company gas' debt is issued by its 100%-owned subsidiary, southern company gas capital, and is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by southern company gas. southern company's and southern company gas' ability to meet their respective financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, and, for southern company, to pay dividends on its common stock, is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of their respective subsidiaries and the ability of those subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay borrowed funds. prior to funding southern company or southern company gas, the respective subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions and financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. these subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide southern company or southern company gas with funds. in addition, southern company and southern company gas may provide capital contributions or debt financing to subsidiaries under certain circumstances, which would reduce the funds available to meet their respective financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, and to pay dividends on southern company's common stock. a downgrade in the credit ratings of southern company, any of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas to post collateral or replace certain indebtedness. there are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, southern company gas capital, and nicor gas, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, southern company gas capital, and nicor gas could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any rating agency concludes that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas has deteriorated. changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if one or more rating agencies downgrade southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas, borrowing costs likely would increase, including automatic increases in interest rates under applicable term loans and credit facilities, the pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, significant collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. any credit rating downgrades could require a traditional electric operating company, southern power, southern company gas, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas to alter the mix of debt financing currently used, and could require the issuance of secured indebtedness and/or indebtedness with additional restrictive covenants. uncertainty in demand for energy can result in lower earnings or higher costs. if demand for energy falls short of expectations, it could result in potentially stranded assets. if demand for energy exceeds expectations, it could result in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional electric generation and transmission facilities or natural gas distribution and storage facilities. southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power each engage in a long-term planning process to estimate the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. southern company gas engages in a long-term planning process to estimate the optimal mix and timing of building new pipelines and storage facilities, replacing existing pipelines, rewatering storage facilities, and entering new markets and/or expanding in existing markets. these planning processes must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation and associated transmission facilities and natural gas distribution and storage facilities. inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. because regulators may not permit the traditional electric operating companies or southern company gas' regulated operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation and associated transmission assets and/or new pipelines and related infrastructure in a timely manner or at all, southern company and its subsidiaries may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs and the recovery in customers' rates. in addition, under southern power's model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term ppas, southern power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if i-35 table of contents index to financial statements market prices drop below original forecasts. southern power and/or the traditional electric operating companies may not be able to extend existing ppas or find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing ppas expire, or they may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional electric operating company, southern power, or southern company gas, and for southern company. the traditional electric operating companies are currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. southern power is currently obligated to supply power to wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed the southern company system's available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional electric operating companies or southern power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation and transmission facilities. because regulators may not permit the traditional electric operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional electric operating companies may not be able to recover some or all of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional electric operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. under southern power's long-term fixed price ppas, southern power would not have the ability to recover any of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power, and for southern company. the businesses of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, and nicor gas are dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. the inability of southern company, any traditional electric operating company, southern power, southern company gas, or nicor gas to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, or nicor gas may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, and nicor gas rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if southern company, any traditional electric operating company, southern power, southern company gas, or nicor gas is not able to access capital at competitive rates or on favorable terms, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, or nicor gas may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. in addition, southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, and nicor gas rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. each of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, and nicor gas believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain events or market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or the ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn or uncertainty; bankruptcy or financial distress at an unrelated energy company, financial institution, or sovereign entity; capital markets volatility and disruption, either nationally or internationally; changes in tax policy; volatility in market prices for electricity and natural gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on the southern company system's facilities or unrelated energy companies' facilities; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. as of december 31, 2016, mississippi power's current liabilities exceeded current assets by approximately $371 million primarily due to $551 million in promissory notes to southern company which mature in december 2017, $35 million in senior notes which mature in november 2017, and $63 million in short-term debt. mississippi power expects the funds needed to satisfy the promissory notes to southern company will exceed amounts available from operating cash flows, lines of credit, and other external sources. accordingly, mississippi power intends to satisfy these obligations through loans and/or equity contributions from southern company. specifically, mississippi power has been informed by southern company that, in the event sufficient funds are not available from external sources, southern company intends to (i) extend the maturity of the $551 million in promissory notes and (ii) provide mississippi power with loans and/or equity contributions sufficient to fund the remaining indebtedness scheduled to mature and other cash needs over the next 12 months. i-36 table of contents index to financial statements georgia power's ability to make future borrowings through its term loan credit facility with the federal financing bank is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, as well as certification of compliance with the requirements of the loan guarantee program under title xvii of the energy policy act of 2005, including accuracy of project-related representations and warranties, delivery of updated project-related information and evidence of compliance with the prevailing wage requirements of the davis-bacon act of 1931, as amended, and certification from the doe's consulting engineer that proceeds of the advances are used to reimburse certain costs of construction relating to plant vogtle units 3 and 4 that are eligible for financing under the title xvii loan guarantee program. volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan costs and the costs of nuclear decommissioning. the costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefit plans are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, changes in actuarial assumptions, future government regulation, changes in life expectancy, and the frequency and amount of the southern company system's required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual values, as well as a significant decline in the value of investments that fund the pension and other postretirement plans, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in plan liabilities, could increase pension and other postretirement expense, and the southern company system could be required from time to time to fund the pension plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations. additionally, alabama power and georgia power each hold significant assets in their nuclear decommissioning trusts to satisfy obligations to decommission alabama power's and georgia power's nuclear plants. the rate of return on assets held in those trusts can significantly impact both the costs of decommissioning and the funding requirements for the trusts. southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable costs. the financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and natural disasters, among other things, could have disruptive effects on insurance markets. the availability of insurance covering risks that southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, southern company gas, and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. further, the insurance policies maintained by southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas may not cover all of the potential exposures or the actual amount of loss incurred. any losses not covered by insurance, or any increases in the cost of applicable insurance, could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, or southern company gas. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of southern company and its subsidiaries or in reported net income volatility. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, manage foreign currency exchange rate exposure and engage in limited trading activities. southern company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures. these risk management policies, limits, and procedures might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not off-set the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. the factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. in addition, southern company gas utilizes derivative instruments to lock in economic value in wholesale gas services, which may not qualify or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes. the difference in accounting treatment for the underlying position and the financial instrument used to hedge the value of the contract can cause volatility in reported net income of southern company and southern company gas while the positions are open due to mark-to-market accounting. i-37 table of contents index to financial statements future impairments of goodwill or long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on southern company's and its subsidiaries' results of operations. goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually and more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value and long-lived assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. in connection with the completion of the merger, the application of the acquisition method of accounting was pushed down to southern company gas. the excess of the purchase price over the fair values of southern company gas' assets and liabilities was recorded as goodwill. this resulted in a significant increase in the goodwill recorded on southern company's and southern company gas' consolidated balance sheets. in addition, southern company and its subsidiaries have long-lived assets recorded on their balance sheets. to the extent the value of goodwill or long-lived assets become impaired, southern company, southern company gas, southern power, and the traditional electric operating companies may be required to incur impairment charges that could have a material impact on their results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis financial condition and liquidity "market price risk" of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant's financial statements under "financial instruments" in item 8 herein. see also note 10 to the financial statements of southern company, alabama power, and georgia power, note 9 to the financial statements of gulf power, mississippi power, and southern company gas, and note 8 to the financial statements of southern power in item 8 herein. ii-3 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management's discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. utility regulatory, legislative, and litigation risks southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial state and federal governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. southern company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses. jointly-owned facilities may be subject to regulation by governmental agencies of more than one state and those state's governmental agencies may have different policies with respect to such jointly-owned facilities. the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities seek to recover their costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital) through their retail rates, which must be approved by the applicable state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency. a state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency, in a future rate proceeding, may alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is allowed or modify the current authorized rate of return. rate refunds may also be required. additionally, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional electric operating companies and by southern power and the rates charged to natural gas transportation customers by southern company gas' pipeline investments must be approved by the ferc. these wholesale rates could be affected by changes to southern power's and the traditional electric operating companies' ability to conduct business pursuant to ferc market-based rate authority. the ferc rules related to retaining the authority to sell electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale markets are important for the traditional electric operating companies and southern power if they are to remain competitive in the wholesale markets in which they operate. the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries is uncertain. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs or otherwise negatively affect their results of operations. the southern company system's costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with current and future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of the registrants. the southern company system's operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental agencies through a variety of laws and regulations governing air, water, land, and the protection of other natural resources. compliance with these existing environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions or through market-based contracts. there is no assurance, however, that all such costs will be recovered. the registrants expect that these expenditures will continue to be significant in the future. the epa has adopted and is implementing regulations governing air and water quality, including the emission of nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, fine particulate matter, ozone, mercury, and other air pollutants under the clean air act and regulations governing cooling water intake structures and effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants under the clean water act. the epa also is reconsidering regulations governing the disposal of ccr, including coal ash and gypsum, in landfills and surface impoundments at power generation plants. additionally, environmental laws and regulations covering the handling and disposal of waste and release of hazardous substances could require the southern company system to incur substantial costs to clean up affected sites, including certain current and former operating sites, and locations affected by historical operations or subject to contractual obligations. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to air, water, land, and the protection of other natural resources may be adopted or become applicable to the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and/or southern company gas. i-20 table of contents index to financial statements litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as standards for air, water, land, and protection of other natural resources, has occurred throughout the u.s. this litigation has included claims for damages alleged to have been caused by co 2 and other emissions, ccr, releases of regulated substances, and alleged exposure to regulated substances, and/or requests for injunctive relief in connection with such matters. the southern company system's ultimate environmental compliance strategy, including potential electric generating unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures will depend on various factors, such as state adoption and implementation of requirements, the availability and cost of any deployed control technology, and the outcome of pending and/or future legal challenges. compliance costs may result from the installation of additional environmental controls, closure and monitoring of ccr facilities, unit retirements, and adding or changing fuel sources for certain existing units, as well as related upgrades to the transmission system. environmental compliance spending over the next several years may differ materially from the amounts estimated. such expenditures could affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered on a timely basis through regulated rates for the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities or through long-term wholesale agreements for the traditional electric operating companies and southern power. further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for energy, which could negatively affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. additionally, many commercial and industrial customers may also be affected by existing and future environmental requirements, which for some may have the potential to ultimately affect their demand for electricity or natural gas. compliance with any new or revised environmental laws or regulations could affect many areas of the traditional electric operating companies', southern power's, and the natural gas distribution utilities' operations. the ultimate impact will depend on various factors, such as state adoption and implementation of requirements, the availability and cost of any deployed control technology, and the outcome of pending and/or future legal challenges. additionally, many commercial and industrial customers may also be affected by existing and future environmental requirements, which may affect their demand for electricity and natural gas. the southern company system may be exposed to regulatory and financial risks related to the impact of greenhouse gas (ghg) legislation and regulation. in 2015, the epa published final rules limiting co 2 emissions from new, modified, and reconstructed fossil fuel-fired electric generating units and guidelines for states to develop plans to meet epa-mandated co 2 emission performance standards for existing units (known as the clean power plan or cpp). in february 2016, the u.s. supreme court granted a stay of the cpp, which will remain in effect through the resolution of the litigation in the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia challenging the legality of the cpp and any review by the u.s. supreme court. on march 28, 2017, the u.s. president signed an executive order directing agencies to review actions that potentially burden the development or use of domestically produced energy resources, including review of the cpp and other co 2 emissions rules. on october 10, 2017, the epa published a proposed rule to repeal the cpp and, on december 28, 2017, published an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking regarding a cpp replacement rule. in 2015, parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, including the united states, adopted the paris agreement, which established a non-binding universal framework for addressing ghg emissions based on nationally determined contributions. on june 1, 2017, the u.s. president announced that the united states would withdraw from the paris agreement and begin renegotiating its terms. the ultimate impact of this agreement or any renegotiated agreement depends on its implementation by participating countries. costs associated with these actions could be significant to the utility industry and the southern company system. however, the ultimate impact of these environmental laws and regulations will depend on various factors, such as state adoption and implementation of requirements, the availability and cost of any deployed control technology, and the outcome of pending and/or future legal challenges. because natural gas is a fossil fuel with lower carbon content relative to other fossil fuels, future ghg constraints may create additional demand for natural gas, both for production of electricity and direct use in homes and businesses. the impact is already being seen in the power production sector due to both environmental regulations and low natural gas costs. future ghg constraints focused on minimizing emissions from natural gas, albeit lower than other fossil fuels, could likewise result in increased costs to the southern company system and affect the demand for natural gas as well as the prices charged to customers and the competitive position of natural gas. i-21 table of contents index to financial statements the net income of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power could be negatively impacted by changes in regulations related to transmission planning processes and competition in the wholesale electric markets. the traditional electric operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. a small percentage of transmission revenues are collected through the wholesale electric tariff but the majority of transmission revenues are collected through retail rates. ferc rules pertaining to regional transmission planning and cost allocation present challenges to transmission planning and the wholesale market structure in the southeast. the key impacts of these rules include: possible disruption of the integrated resource planning processes within the states in the southern company system's service territory; delays and additional processes for developing transmission plans; and possible impacts on state jurisdiction of approving, certifying, and pricing new transmission facilities. the ferc rules related to transmission are intended to spur the development of new transmission infrastructure to promote and encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply as well as facilitate competition in the wholesale market by providing more choices to wholesale power customers. technology changes in the power and fuel industries continue to create significant impacts to wholesale transaction cost structures. the impact of these and other such developments and the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand are uncertain. the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power could be adversely affected by these and other changes. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power could be subject to higher costs as a result of implementing and maintaining compliance with the north american electric reliability corporation mandatory reliability standards along with possible associated penalties for non-compliance. owners and operators of bulk power systems, including the traditional electric operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. compliance with or changes in the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional electric operating companies and southern power to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if any traditional electric operating company or southern power is found to be in noncompliance with these standards, such traditional electric operating company or southern power could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. southern company and its subsidiaries are continuing to review the tax reform legislation, which has and could have a further material impact on the results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows of the registrants. on december 22, 2017, the tax reform legislation was signed into law and became effective on january 1, 2018. the tax reform legislation significantly changes the u.s. internal revenue code by, among other things, reducing the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% and repealing the corporate alternative minimum tax. as a result of the tax rate reduction, southern company recorded net, non-cash federal income tax benefits of $264 million in the fourth quarter 2017, comprised primarily of a $743 million tax benefit resulting from reductions in deferred tax liabilities at southern power, partially offset by tax expenses of $372 million and $93 million resulting from reductions in deferred tax assets at mississippi power and southern company gas, respectively. the tax rate reduction also resulted in a $6.9 billion increase in regulatory liabilities and a $0.4 billion decrease in regulatory assets across the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities. the regulatory treatment of certain impacts of the tax reform legislation is subject to the discretion of the ferc and the relevant state regulatory bodies. for businesses other than regulated utility businesses, the tax reform legislation allows 100% bonus depreciation of qualified property through 2022, which phases down through 2027, and limits interest expense deductions. regulated utility businesses, including the majority of the operations of the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution companies, can continue deducting all business interest expense and are not eligible for bonus depreciation on capital assets acquired and placed in service after september 27, 2017. the tax reform legislation retains normalization provisions for public utility property and existing renewable energy incentives. however, the tax rate reduction delays the utilization of renewable tax credit carryforwards as described in note 5 to the financial statements of southern company, alabama power, georgia power, and southern power under "federal tax reform legislation" in item 8 herein. the tax reform legislation also includes provisions that limit the utilization of future net operating losses and limit the deductibility of certain executive compensation and other expenses. further, while it is unclear how the credit rating agencies, the ferc, and relevant state regulatory bodies may respond to the tax reform legislation, certain financial metrics, such as funds from operations to debt percentage, used by the credit rating agencies to assess the registrants, southern company gas capital, and nicor gas may be negatively impacted. i-22 table of contents index to financial statements the tax reform legislation is unclear in certain respects and will require interpretations, guidance, and implementing regulations by the irs, as well as each respective state's adoption. in addition, the regulatory treatment of certain impacts of the tax reform legislation is subject to the discretion of the ferc and relevant state regulatory bodies. southern company and its subsidiaries are continuing to review the tax reform legislation and are assessing whether any potential actions are available to mitigate adverse impacts of the legislation. southern company and its subsidiaries may identify additional impacts as they further assess the tax reform legislation and as the irs issues interpretations and implements regulations. southern company will continue to monitor the actions of state legislatures and state taxing authorities to see how the states may adopt and implement the tax reform legislation. while the ultimate impact of the tax reform legislation, future interpretations and implementation of regulations by the irs and state tax authorities, and any mitigating actions southern company and its subsidiaries may take cannot be determined at this time, the tax reform legislation had and could have a further material impact on the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of the registrants. operational risks the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if the subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of the electric utilities' generating, transmission, and distribution facilities and southern company gas' natural gas distribution and storage facilities and the successful performance of necessary corporate functions. there are many risks that could affect these operations and performance of corporate functions, including: operator error or failure of equipment or processes; accidents or explosions; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; labor disputes; terrorist attacks (physical and/or cyber); fuel or material supply interruptions; transmission disruption or capacity constraints, including with respect to the southern company system's and third parties' transmission, storage, and transportation facilities; compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards; implementation of new technologies; information technology system failure; cyber intrusion; an environmental event, such as a spill or release; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, droughts, hurricanes, tornadoes, and storms, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or natural gas distribution or storage facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional electric operating company, southern power, or southern company gas and of southern company. operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, safety, health, regulatory, natural disasters, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of the nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units. the six existing units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 mws, or 8% of the southern company system's electric generation capacity as of december 31, 2017 . in addition, these units generated approximately 25% of the total kwhs generated by each of alabama power and georgia power in the year ended december 31, 2017 . in addition, southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other vogtle owners, is managing the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. due solely to the increase in nuclear generating capacity, the below risks are expected to increase incrementally once plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are operational. nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, safety, health, operational, and financial risks such as: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health and safety resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive material, including spent nuclear fuel; uncertainties with respect to the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and the need for longer term on-site storage; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of licensed lives and the ability to maintain and anticipate adequate capital reserves for decommissioning; i-23 table of contents index to financial statements limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the nuclear operations of alabama power and georgia power or those of other commercial nuclear facility owners in the u.s.; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; significant capital expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair of these facilities, including repairs and upgrades required by the nrc; the threat of a possible terrorist attack, including a potential cyber security attack; and the potential impact of an accident or natural disaster. it is possible that damages, decommissioning, or other costs could exceed the amount of decommissioning trusts or external insurance coverage, including statutorily required nuclear incident insurance. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units or require additional safety measures at new and existing units. moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the u.s., including facilities owned and operated by third parties, could require alabama power and georgia power to make material contributory payments. in addition, potential terrorist threats could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict. transporting and storing natural gas involves risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. southern company gas' natural gas distribution and storage activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents, explosions, and mechanical problems, which could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of its operations. the location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas could increase the level of damage resulting from these risks. additionally, these pipeline and storage facilities are subject to various state and other regulatory requirements. failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties or potential early retirement of storage facilities, which could trigger an associated impairment. the occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance or otherwise could adversely affect southern company gas' and southern company's financial condition and results of operations. physical attacks, both threatened and actual, could impact the ability of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas face the risk of physical attacks, both threatened and actual, against their respective generation and storage facilities and the transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport energy, which could negatively impact their ability to generate, transport, and deliver power, or otherwise operate their respective facilities, or, with respect to southern company gas, its ability to distribute or store natural gas, or otherwise operate its facilities, in the most efficient manner or at all. in addition, physical attacks against key suppliers or service providers could have a similar effect on southern company and its subsidiaries. despite the implementation of robust security measures, all assets are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error, natural disasters, technological failure, or internal or external physical attacks. if assets were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached and were not recovered in a timely way, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, or southern company gas, as applicable, may be unable to fulfill critical business functions. moreover, the amount and scope of insurance maintained against losses resulting from any such events or physical security breaches may not be sufficient to cover losses or otherwise adequately compensate for any disruptions to business that could result. these events could harm the reputation of and negatively affect the financial results of the registrants through lost revenues and costs to repair damage, if such costs cannot be recovered. an information security incident, including a cybersecurity breach, or the failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, or processes could impact the ability of the registrants to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. information security risks have generally increased in recent years as a result of the proliferation of new technology and increased sophistication and frequency of cyber attacks and data security breaches. the traditional electric operating i-24 table of contents index to financial statements companies, southern power, and southern company gas operate in highly regulated industries that require the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of interconnected distribution systems. because of the critical nature of the infrastructure, increased connectivity to the internet, and technology systems' inherent vulnerability to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism, or other types of data security breaches, southern company and its subsidiaries face a heightened risk of cyberattack. parties that wish to disrupt the u.s. bulk power system or southern company system operations could view these computer systems, software, or networks as targets. the registrants and their third-party vendors have been subject, and will likely continue to be subject, to attempts to gain unauthorized access to their information technology systems and confidential data or to attempts to disrupt utility operations. as a result, southern company and its subsidiaries face on-going threats to their assets, including assets deemed critical infrastructure, where databases and systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to advanced computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, phishing, and other cyber attacks. while there has been no material impact on business or operations from these attacks, the registrants cannot guarantee that security efforts will prevent breaches, operational incidents, or other breakdowns of information technology systems and network infrastructure. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, southern company and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personally identifiable information about customers, employees, and stockholders, and other confidential information. in some cases, administration of certain functions may be outsourced to third party service providers that could also be targets of cyber attacks. generally, southern company and its subsidiaries enter certain contractual security guarantees and assurances with these third parties to help ensure the security and safety of this information. despite the implementation of robust security measures, all assets are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error, natural disasters, technological failure, or internal or external cyber attacks. if assets were to fail or be breached and were not recovered in a timely way, the affected registrant may be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. any cyber breach or theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data may also subject the affected registrant to penalties and claims from regulators or other third parties. moreover, the amount and scope of insurance maintained against losses resulting from any such events or security breaches may not be sufficient to cover losses or otherwise adequately compensate for any disruptions to business that could result. these events could negatively affect the financial results of the registrants through lost revenues, costs to recover and repair damage, and costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks, litigation, and reputational damage if such costs cannot be recovered through insurance or otherwise. the southern company system may not be able to obtain adequate natural gas and other fuel supplies required to operate the traditional electric operating companies' and southern power's electric generating plants or serve southern company gas' natural gas customers. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and biomass, as applicable, from a number of suppliers. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power to operate certain facilities, which could result in higher fuel and operating costs and potentially reduce the net income of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power and southern company. southern company gas' primary business is the distribution and sale of natural gas through its regulated and unregulated subsidiaries. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane or a pipeline failure. southern company gas also relies on natural gas pipelines and other storage and transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver natural gas to wholesale markets and to southern company gas' distribution systems. the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility may have a material impact on the supply and cost of natural gas. disruption in natural gas supplies could limit the ability to fulfill these contractual obligations. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power have become more dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. in many instances, the cost of purchased power for the traditional electric operating companies and southern power is influenced by natural gas prices. historically, natural gas prices have been more volatile than prices of other fuels. in recent years, domestic natural gas prices have been depressed by robust supplies, including production from shale gas. these market conditions, together with additional regulation of coal-fired generating units, have increased the traditional electric operating companies' reliance on natural gas-fired generating units. the traditional electric operating companies are also dependent on coal for a portion of their electric generating capacity. the traditional electric operating companies depend on coal supply contracts, and the counterparties to these agreements may not fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional electric operating companies. the suppliers may experience financial or i-25 table of contents index to financial statements technical problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations. in addition, the suppliers may not be required to supply coal under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional electric operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, they may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be recoverable through rates. the revenues of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, the failure of the traditional electric operating companies or southern power to satisfy minimum requirements under the ppas, or the failure to renew the ppas or successfully remarket the related generating capacity could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power's generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas. southern power's top three customers, georgia power, duke energy corporation, and morgan stanley capital group accounted for 11.3%, 6.7%, and 4.5%, respectively, of southern power's total revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017 . in addition, the traditional electric operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power and of southern company. although the credit evaluations undertaken and contractual protections implemented by southern power and the traditional electric operating companies take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than predicted or specified in the applicable contract. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional electric operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. the failure of the traditional electric operating companies or southern power to satisfy minimum operational or availability requirements under these ppas could result in payment of damages or termination of the ppas. the asset management arrangements between southern company gas' wholesale gas services and its customers, including the natural gas distribution utilities, may not be renewed or may be renewed at lower levels, which could have a significant impact on southern company gas' financial results. southern company gas' wholesale gas services currently manages the storage and transportation assets of the natural gas distribution utilities except nicor gas. the profits earned from the management of these affiliate assets are shared with the respective affiliate's customers (and for atlanta gas light company with the georgia psc's universal service fund), except for chattanooga gas company and elkton gas where wholesale gas services are provided under annual fixed-fee agreements. these asset management agreements are subject to regulatory approval and such agreements may not be renewed or may be renewed with less favorable terms. southern company gas' wholesale gas services also has asset management agreements with certain non-affiliated customers and its financial results could be significantly impacted if these agreements are not renewed or are amended or renewed with less favorable terms. sustained low natural gas prices could reduce the demand for these types of asset management arrangements. increased competition could negatively impact southern company's and its subsidiaries' revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. the southern company system faces increasing competition from other companies that supply energy or generation and storage technologies. changes in technology may make the southern company system's electric generating facilities owned by the traditional electric operating companies and southern power less competitive. southern company gas' business is dependent on natural gas prices remaining competitive as compared to other forms of energy. southern company gas also faces competition in its unregulated markets. a key element of the business models of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation and storage technologies that produce and store power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, solar cells, and batteries. advances in technology or changes in laws or regulations could reduce the cost of these or other alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost effective distributed generation that allows for increased self-generation by customers. broader use of distributed generation by retail energy customers may also result from customers' changing perceptions of the merits of utilizing existing generation technology or tax or other economic incentives. additionally, a state psc or legislature may modify certain aspects of the traditional electric operating companies' business as a result of these advances in technology. i-26 table of contents index to financial statements it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by the traditional electric operating companies and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, or southern power. southern company gas' gas marketing services is affected by competition from other energy marketers providing similar services in southern company gas' service territories, most notably in illinois and georgia. southern company gas' wholesale gas services competes for sales with national and regional full-service energy providers, energy merchants and producers, and pipelines based on the ability to aggregate competitively-priced commodities with transportation and storage capacity. southern company gas competes with natural gas facilities in the gulf coast region of the u.s., as the majority of the existing and proposed high deliverability salt-dome natural gas storage facilities in north america are located in the gulf coast region. if new technologies become cost competitive and achieve sufficient scale, the market share of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities or natural gas distribution and storage facilities could be reduced. additionally, southern company gas' market share could be reduced if southern company gas cannot remain price competitive in its unregulated markets. if state pscs or other applicable state regulatory agencies fail to adjust rates to reflect the impact of any changes in loads, increasing self-generation, and the growth of distributed generation, the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of southern company and the affected traditional electric operating company or southern company gas could be materially adversely affected. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact southern company's and its subsidiaries' results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges such as lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, including with the workforce needs associated with major construction projects and ongoing operations. the southern company system's costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs, and safety costs, may rise. failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect southern company and its subsidiaries' ability to manage and operate their businesses. if southern company and its subsidiaries are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. construction risks the registrants may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. also, existing facilities of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas require ongoing capital expenditures, including those to meet environmental standards. general the businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new facilities and, for the traditional electric operating companies, capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, and, for southern company gas, capital improvements to natural gas distribution and storage facilities, including those to meet environmental standards. certain of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. southern company gas is replacing certain pipelines in its natural gas distribution system and is involved in two new gas pipeline construction projects. the southern company system intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, expanding or updating existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. these types of projects are long term in nature and in some cases include the development and construction of facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. the completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; changes in labor costs and productivity; work stoppages; contractor or supplier delay or non-performance under construction, operating, or other agreements or non-performance by other major participants in construction projects; delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, tax credits, and other regulatory authorizations; delays associated with start-up activities, including major equipment failure and system integration, and/or operational performance (including additional costs to satisfy any operational parameters ultimately adopted by any psc or other applicable state regulatory agency); i-27 table of contents index to financial statements operational readiness, including specialized operator training and required site safety programs; impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; the outcome of legal challenges to projects, including legal challenges to regulatory approvals; failure to construct in accordance with permitting and licensing requirements; failure to satisfy any environmental performance standards and the requirements of tax credits and other incentives; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; other unforeseen engineering or design problems; changes in project design or scope; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; and unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor, and increased financing costs as a result of changes in market interest rates or as a result of construction schedule delays. if a traditional electric operating company, southern power, or southern company gas is unable to complete the development or construction of a project or decides to delay or cancel construction of a project, it may not be able to recover its investment in that project and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. additionally, each southern company gas pipeline construction project involves separate joint venture participants, southern power participates in partnership agreements with respect to renewable energy projects, and georgia power jointly owns plant vogtle units 3 and 4 with other co-owners. any failure by a partner or co-owner to perform its obligations under the applicable agreements could have a material negative impact on the applicable project under construction. in addition, partnership and joint ownership agreements may provide partners or co-owners with certain decision-making authority in connection with projects under construction. even if a construction project (including a joint venture construction project) is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and may not be recoverable through regulated rates, if applicable. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of the affected registrant. construction delays could result in the loss of otherwise available investment tax credits, ptcs, and other tax incentives. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional electric operating company, southern power, or southern company gas and southern company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. once facilities become operational, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional electric operating companies' existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide safe and reliable operations. the largest construction project currently underway in the southern company system is plant vogtle units 3 and 4. plant vogtle units 3 and 4 construction and rate recovery in 2009, the georgia psc certified construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. in 2012, the nrc issued the related combined construction and operating licenses, which allowed full construction of the two ap1000 nuclear units (with electric generating capacity of approximately 1,100 mws each) and related facilities to begin. until march 2017, construction on plant vogtle units 3 and 4 continued under a substantially fixed price engineering, procurement, and construction agreement, pursuant to which the epc contractor agreed to design, engineer, procure, construct, and test plant vogtle units 3 and 4. on march 29, 2017, the epc contractor filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code. in connection with the epc contractor's bankruptcy filing, georgia power, acting for itself and as agent for the vogtle owners, entered into an agreement with the epc contractor to allow construction to continue (interim assessment agreement). the interim assessment agreement expired on july 27, 2017 upon the effectiveness of a services agreement between the vogtle owners and the epc contractor for the epc contractor to transition construction management of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 to southern nuclear and to provide ongoing design, engineering, and procurement services to southern nuclear (vogtle services agreement). in august 2017, following completion of comprehensive cost to complete and cancellation cost assessments, georgia power filed its seventeenth vogtle construction monitoring (vcm) report with the georgia psc, which included a recommendation to continue construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, with southern nuclear serving as project manager and bechtel power corporation (bechtel) serving as the primary construction contractor. facility design and engineering remains the responsibility of the epc contractor under the vogtle services agreement. the construction completion agreement between georgia power, for itself and as agent for the other vogtle owners, and bechtel (bechtel agreement) is a cost reimbursable plus i-28 table of contents index to financial statements fee arrangement, whereby bechtel will be reimbursed for actual costs plus a base fee and an at-risk fee, which is subject to adjustment based on bechtel's performance against cost and schedule targets. on november 2, 2017, the vogtle owners entered into an amendment to their joint ownership agreements for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (as amended, vogtle joint ownership agreements) to provide for, among other conditions, additional vogtle owner approval requirements. pursuant to the vogtle joint ownership agreements, the holders of at least 90% of the ownership interests in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 must vote to continue construction if certain adverse events occur, including (i) the bankruptcy of toshiba corporation; (ii) termination or rejection in bankruptcy of certain agreements, including the vogtle services agreement or the bechtel agreement; (iii) the georgia psc or georgia power determines that any of georgia power's costs relating to the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 will not be recovered in retail rates because such costs are deemed unreasonable or imprudent; or (iv) an increase in the construction budget contained in the seventeenth vcm report of more than $1 billion or extension of the project schedule contained in the seventeenth vcm report of more than one year. in addition, pursuant to the vogtle joint ownership agreements, the required approval of holders of ownership interests in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 is at least (i) 90% for a change of the primary construction contractor and (ii) 67% for material amendments to the vogtle services agreement or agreements with southern nuclear or the primary construction contractor, including the bechtel agreement. on december 21, 2017, the georgia psc voted to approve (and issued its related order on january 11, 2018) georgia power's recommendation to continue construction and resolved the following regulatory matters related to plant vogtle units 3 and 4: (i) none of the $3.3 billion of costs incurred through december 31, 2015 and reflected in the fourteenth vcm report should be disallowed from rate base on the basis of imprudence; (ii) the december 31, 2015 agreement between westinghouse and the vogtle owners resolving disputes between the vogtle owners and the epc contractor under the original engineering, procurement, and construction agreement for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (contractor settlement agreement) was reasonable and prudent and none of the amounts paid pursuant to the contractor settlement agreement should be disallowed from rate base on the basis of imprudence; (iii) (a) capital costs incurred up to $5.680 billion would be presumed to be reasonable and prudent with the burden of proof on any party challenging such costs, (b) georgia power would have the burden to show that any capital costs above $5.680 billion were prudent, and (c) a revised capital cost forecast of $7.3 billion (after reflecting the impact of payments received under the guarantee settlement agreement and the customer refunds, each as defined below) is found reasonable; (iv) construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 should be completed, with southern nuclear serving as project manager and bechtel as primary contractor; (v) approved and deemed reasonable georgia power's revised schedule placing plant vogtle units 3 and 4 in service in november 2021 and november 2022, respectively; (vi) confirmed that the revised cost forecast does not represent a cost cap and that prudence decisions on cost recovery will be made at a later date, consistent with applicable georgia law; (vii) reduced the return on equity (roe) used to calculate the nuclear construction cost recovery (nccr) tariff (a) from 10.95% (the roe rate setting point authorized by the georgia psc in the 2013 alternative rate plan) to 10.00% effective january 1, 2016, (b) from 10.00% to 8.30%, effective january 1, 2020, and (c) from 8.30% to 5.30%, effective january 1, 2021 (provided that the roe in no case will be less than georgia power's average cost of long-term debt); (viii) reduced the roe used for allowance for funds used during construction equity for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 from 10.00% to georgia power's average cost of long-term debt, effective january 1, 2018; and (ix) agreed that upon unit 3 reaching commercial operation, retail base rates would be adjusted to include carrying costs on those capital costs deemed prudent in the settlement agreement approved by the georgia psc on december 20, 2016. the january 11, 2018 order also stated that if plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are not commercially operational by june 1, 2021 and june 1, 2022, respectively, the roe used to calculate the nccr tariff will be further reduced by 10 basis points each month (but not lower than georgia power's average cost of long-term debt) until the respective unit is commercially operational. in its january 11, 2018 order, the georgia psc stated if other certain conditions and assumptions upon which georgia power's seventeenth vcm report are based do not materialize, both georgia power and the georgia psc reserve the right to reconsider the decision to continue construction. on february 12, 2018, georgia interfaith power &amp; light, inc. and partnership for southern equity, inc. filed a petition appealing the georgia psc's january 11, 2018 order with the fulton county superior court. georgia power believes the appeal has no merit; however, an adverse outcome in this appeal could have a material impact on southern company's and georgia power's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. georgia power expects plant vogtle units 3 and 4 to be placed in service by november 2021 and november 2022, respectively. georgia power's revised capital cost forecast for its 45.7% proportionate share of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 is $8.8 billion ($7.3 billion after reflecting the impact of payments received under a settlement agreement regarding toshiba's guarantee of certain obligations of the epc contractor (guarantee settlement agreement) and certain refunds to customers ordered by the georgia psc (customer refunds)). georgia power's construction work in progress balance for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 was $3.3 billion at december 31, 2017, which is net of the guarantee settlement agreement payments less the customer refunds. georgia power estimates that its financing costs for construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 will total approximately $3.1 billion, of which $1.6 billion had been incurred through december 31, 2017. i-29 table of contents index to financial statements as construction continues, challenges with management of contractors, subcontractors, and vendors, labor productivity and availability, fabrication, delivery, assembly, and installation of plant systems, structures, and components (some of which are based on new technology and have not yet operated in the global nuclear industry at this scale), or other issues could arise and change the projected schedule and estimated cost. there have been technical and procedural challenges to the construction and licensing of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 at the federal and state level and additional challenges may arise. processes are in place that are designed to assure compliance with the requirements specified in the westinghouse design control document and the combined construction and operating licenses, including inspections by southern nuclear and the nrc that occur throughout construction. as a result of such compliance processes, certain license amendment requests have been filed and approved or are pending before the nrc. various design and other licensing-based compliance matters, including the timely resolution of inspections, tests, analyses, and acceptance criteria and the related approvals by the nrc, may arise, which may result in additional license amendments or require other resolution. if any license amendment requests or other licensing-based compliance issues are not resolved in a timely manner, there may be delays in the project schedule that could result in increased costs. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. see note 3 to the financial statements of southern company under "nuclear construction" and of georgia power under "retail regulatory matters - nuclear construction" for additional information regarding plant vogtle units 3 and 4. southern company gas' significant investments in pipelines and pipeline development projects involve financial and execution risks. southern company gas has made significant investments in existing pipelines and pipeline development projects. many of the existing pipelines are, and when completed many of the pipeline development projects will be, operated by third parties. if one of these agents fails to perform in a proper manner, the value of the investment could decline and southern company gas could lose part or all of the investment. in addition, from time to time, southern company gas may be required to contribute additional capital to a pipeline joint venture or guarantee the obligations of such joint venture. with respect to certain pipeline development projects, southern company gas will rely on its joint venture partners for construction management and will not exercise direct control over the process. all of the pipeline development projects are dependent on contractors for the successful and timely completion of the projects. further, the development of pipeline projects involves numerous regulatory, environmental, construction, safety, political, and legal uncertainties and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. these projects may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. there may be cost overruns and construction difficulties that cause southern company gas' capital expenditures to exceed its initial expectations. moreover, southern company gas' revenues will not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a pipeline project. pipeline construction occurs over an extended period of time and southern company gas will not receive material increases in revenues until the project is placed in service. the occurrence of any of the foregoing events could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company gas and southern company. financial, economic, and market risks the electric generation and energy marketing operations of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power and the natural gas operations of southern company gas are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in energy prices and fuel costs, which may reduce revenues and increase costs. the generation, energy marketing, and natural gas operations of the southern company system are subject to changes in energy prices and fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power, decrease the amount received from the sale of energy, and/or make electric generating facilities less competitive. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. among the factors that could influence energy prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, biomass, and other fuels, as applicable, used in the generation facilities of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power and, in the case of natural gas, distributed by southern company gas, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity and natural gas markets; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity and natural gas; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints, disruptions, or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; i-30 table of contents index to financial statements the economy in the southern company system's service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on demand for electricity and the demand for fuels, including natural gas; natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, or southern company gas and southern company. for the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas' regulated gas distribution operations, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, or southern company gas and southern company. historically, the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel and/or purchased gas cost balances and may experience such balances in the future. while the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas are generally authorized to recover fuel and/or purchased gas costs through cost recovery clauses, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred, and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern company gas and southern company. the registrants are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, customer behaviors, including increased energy conservation, and adoption patterns of technologies by the customers of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas. the consumption and use of energy are fundamentally linked to economic activity. this relationship is affected over time by changes in the economy, customer behaviors, and technologies. any economic downturn could negatively impact customer growth and usage per customer, thus reducing the sales of energy and revenues. additionally, any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets, both nationally and internationally, could negatively affect the financial stability of customers and counterparties of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas. outside of economic disruptions, changes in customer behaviors in response to energy efficiency programs, changing conditions and preferences, or changes in the adoption of technologies could affect the relationship of economic activity to the consumption of energy. both federal and state programs exist to influence how customers use energy, and several of the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas have psc or other applicable state regulatory agency mandates to promote energy efficiency. conservation programs could impact the financial results of the registrants in different ways. for example, if any traditional electric operating company or southern company gas is required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional electric operating company or southern company gas and southern company. customers could also voluntarily reduce their consumption of energy in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy prices, or individual conservation efforts. in addition, the adoption of technology by customers can have both positive and negative impacts on sales. many new technologies utilize less energy than in the past. however, new electric and natural gas technologies such as electric and natural gas vehicles can create additional demand. the southern company system uses best available methods and experience to incorporate the effects of changes in customer behavior, state and federal programs, psc or other applicable state regulatory agency mandates, and technology, but the southern company system's planning processes may not appropriately estimate and incorporate these effects. all of the factors discussed above could adversely affect southern company's, the traditional electric operating companies', southern power's, and/or southern company gas' results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. the operating results of the registrants are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. in addition, catastrophic events, such as fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, and storms, could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and/or southern company gas and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity. electric power and natural gas supply are generally seasonal businesses. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter months. in most of the areas the traditional electric operating companies serve, electric power sales peak during the summer with a smaller peak during the winter, while in most of the areas southern company gas serves, natural gas demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of the registrants may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas have historically sold less i-31 table of contents index to financial statements power and natural gas when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, and available cash of the affected registrant. further, volatile or significant weather events could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional electric operating companies, the generating facilities of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power, and the natural gas distribution and storage facilities of southern company gas. the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas have significant investments in the atlantic and gulf coast regions and southern power has wind and natural gas investments in various states which could be subject to severe weather, as well as solar investments in various states which could be subject to natural disasters. further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. in the event a traditional electric operating company or southern company gas experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency. historically, the traditional electric operating companies from time to time have experienced deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such deficits in the future. any denial by the applicable state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional electric operating company's or southern company gas' and southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional electric operating company or southern company gas or affecting southern power's customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for energy for extended periods. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand for energy could have a material negative impact on a traditional electric operating company's, southern power's, or southern company gas' and southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. acquisitions, dispositions, or other strategic ventures or investments may not result in anticipated benefits and may present risks not originally contemplated, which may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries have made significant acquisitions and investments in the past and may in the future make additional acquisitions, dispositions, or other strategic ventures or investments, including the proposed sale by pivotal utility holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of southern company gas, of the assets of its natural gas distribution utilities, elizabethtown gas and elkton gas, and the potential sale by southern power of a 33% equity interest in a newly-formed holding company that owns substantially all of southern power's solar assets. southern company and its subsidiaries continually seek opportunities to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions or sales of assets. specifically, southern power continually seeks opportunities to execute its strategy to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions and sales of assets, development and construction of new generating facilities, and entry into ppas primarily with investor-owned utilities, independent power producers, municipalities, and other load-serving entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers. southern company and its subsidiaries may face significant competition for transactional opportunities and anticipated transactions may not be completed on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, these transactions are intended to, but may not, result in the generation of cash or income, the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, or the reduction of risk. these transactions may also affect the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. these transactions also involve risks, including: they may not result in an increase in income or provide an adequate return on capital or other anticipated benefits; they may result in southern company or its subsidiaries entering into new or additional lines of business, which may have new or different business or operational risks; they may not be successfully integrated into the acquiring company's operations and/or internal control processes; the due diligence conducted prior to a transaction may not uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure or the acquiring company may not appropriately evaluate the likelihood or quantify the exposure from identified risks; they may result in decreased earnings, revenues, or cash flow; expected benefits of a transaction may be dependent on the cooperation or performance of a counterparty; or for the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas, costs associated with such investments that were expected to be recovered through rates may not be recoverable. i-32 table of contents index to financial statements southern company and southern company gas are holding companies and are dependent on cash flows from their respective subsidiaries to meet their ongoing and future financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness and, for southern company, to pay dividends on its common stock. southern company and southern company gas are holding companies and, as such, they have no operations of their own. substantially all of southern company's and southern company gas' respective consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. a significant portion of southern company gas' debt is issued by its 100%-owned subsidiary, southern company gas capital, and is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by southern company gas. southern company's and southern company gas' ability to meet their respective financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, and, for southern company, to pay dividends on its common stock, is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of their respective subsidiaries and the ability of those subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay borrowed funds. prior to funding southern company or southern company gas, the respective subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions and financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. these subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide southern company or southern company gas with funds. in addition, southern company and southern company gas may provide capital contributions or debt financing to subsidiaries under certain circumstances, which would reduce the funds available to meet their respective financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, and to pay dividends on southern company's common stock. a downgrade in the credit ratings of any of the registrants, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require posting of collateral or replacing certain indebtedness. there are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for the registrants, southern company gas capital, and nicor gas, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. the registrants, southern company gas capital, and nicor gas could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any rating agency concludes that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or the applicable company has deteriorated. changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if one or more rating agencies downgrade any registrant, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas, borrowing costs likely would increase, including automatic increases in interest rates under applicable term loans and credit facilities, the pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, significant collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. any credit rating downgrades could require altering the mix of debt financing currently used, and could require the issuance of secured indebtedness and/or indebtedness with additional restrictive covenants binding the applicable company. uncertainty in demand for energy can result in lower earnings or higher costs. if demand for energy falls short of expectations, it could result in potentially stranded assets. if demand for energy exceeds expectations, it could result in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional electric generation and transmission facilities or natural gas distribution and storage facilities. southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power each engage in a long-term planning process to estimate the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. southern company gas engages in a long-term planning process to estimate the optimal mix and timing of building new pipelines and storage facilities, replacing existing pipelines, rewatering storage facilities, and entering new markets and/or expanding in existing markets. these planning processes must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation and associated transmission facilities and natural gas distribution and storage facilities. inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. because regulators may not permit the traditional electric operating companies or southern company gas' regulated operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation and associated transmission assets and/or new pipelines and related infrastructure in a timely manner or at all, southern company and its subsidiaries may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs and the recovery in customers' rates. in addition, under southern power's model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term ppas, southern power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. southern power and/or the traditional electric operating companies may not be able to extend existing ppas or find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing ppas expire, or they may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected registrant. the traditional electric operating companies are currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. southern power is currently obligated to supply power to wholesale customers under long- i-33 table of contents index to financial statements term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed the southern company system's available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional electric operating companies purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation and transmission facilities, and for southern power to purchase energy or capacity on the open market. because regulators may not permit the traditional electric operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional electric operating companies may not be able to recover some or all of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional electric operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. under southern power's long-term fixed price ppas, southern power may not be able to recover all of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected registrant. the businesses of the registrants and nicor gas are dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. the inability of any of the registrants or nicor gas to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that it may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. the registrants and nicor gas rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if any of the registrants or nicor gas is not able to access capital at competitive rates or on favorable terms, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that it may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. in addition, the registrants and nicor gas rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. each of the registrants and nicor gas believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain events or market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or the ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn or uncertainty; bankruptcy or financial distress at an unrelated energy company, financial institution, or sovereign entity; capital markets volatility and disruption, either nationally or internationally; changes in tax policy; volatility in market prices for electricity and natural gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on the southern company system's facilities or unrelated energy companies' facilities; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. as of december 31, 2017, mississippi power's current liabilities exceeded current assets by approximately $911 million primarily due to a $900 million unsecured term loan that matures on march 31, 2018. mississippi power expects to refinance the unsecured term loan with external security issuances and/or borrowings from financial institutions or southern company. mississippi power has been informed by southern company that in the event sufficient funds are not available from external sources, southern company intends to provide mississippi power with loans and/or equity to fund the remaining indebtedness to mature and other cash needs over the next 12 months. georgia power's ability to make future borrowings through its term loan credit facility with the federal financing bank is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, as well as certification of compliance with the requirements of the loan guarantee program under title xvii of the energy policy act of 2005, including accuracy of project-related representations and warranties, delivery of updated project-related information and evidence of compliance with the prevailing wage requirements of the davis-bacon act of 1931, as amended, and certification from the doe's consulting engineer that proceeds of the advances are used to reimburse certain costs of construction relating to plant vogtle units 3 and 4 that are eligible for financing under the title xvii loan guarantee program. prior to obtaining any further advances under georgia power's loan guarantee agreement with the doe, georgia power is required to obtain the doe's approval of the bechtel agreement. failure to comply with debt covenants or conditions could adversely affect the ability of the registrants, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas to execute future borrowings. the debt and credit agreements of the registrants, southern company gas capital, and nicor gas contain various financial and other covenants. georgia power's loan guarantee agreement with the doe contains additional covenants, events of default, and mandatory prepayment events relating to the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements, which would negatively affect the applicable company's financial condition and liquidity. i-34 table of contents index to financial statements volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan costs and the costs of nuclear decommissioning. the costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefit plans are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, changes in actuarial assumptions, future government regulation, changes in life expectancy, and the frequency and amount of the southern company system's required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual values, as well as a significant decline in the value of investments that fund the pension and other postretirement plans, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in plan liabilities, could increase pension and other postretirement expense, and the southern company system could be required from time to time to fund the pension plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations. additionally, alabama power and georgia power each hold significant assets in their nuclear decommissioning trusts to satisfy obligations to decommission alabama power's and georgia power's nuclear plants. the rate of return on assets held in those trusts can significantly impact both the costs of decommissioning and the funding requirements for the trusts. the registrants are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable costs. the financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and natural disasters, among other things, could have disruptive effects on insurance markets. the availability of insurance covering risks that the registrants and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that the registrants are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. further, the insurance policies may not cover all of the potential exposures or the actual amount of loss incurred. any losses not covered by insurance, or any increases in the cost of applicable insurance, could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of the affected registrant. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of the registrants or in reported net income volatility. southern company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, manage foreign currency exchange rate exposure and engage in limited trading activities. the registrants could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. the factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. in addition, southern company gas utilizes derivative instruments to lock in economic value in wholesale gas services, which may not qualify or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes. the difference in accounting treatment for the underlying position and the financial instrument used to hedge the value of the contract can cause volatility in reported net income of southern company and southern company gas while the positions are open due to mark-to-market accounting. future impairments of goodwill or long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on the registrants' results of operations. goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually and more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value and long-lived assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. in connection with the completion of the merger, the application of the acquisition method of accounting was pushed down to southern company gas. the excess of the purchase price over the fair values of southern company gas' assets and liabilities was recorded as goodwill. this resulted in a significant increase in the goodwill recorded on southern company's and southern company gas' consolidated balance sheets. at december 31, 2017, goodwill was $6.3 billion and $6.0 billion for southern company and southern company gas, respectively. in addition, southern company and its subsidiaries have long-lived assets recorded on their balance sheets. to the extent the value of goodwill or long-lived assets become impaired, the affected registrant may be required to incur impairment charges that could have a material impact on their results of operations. for example, a wholly-owned subsidiary of southern company i-35 table of contents index to financial statements gas owns and operates a natural gas storage facility consisting of two salt dome caverns where recent seismic mapping indicates that proximity of one of the caverns to the edge of the salt dome may be less than the required minimum and could result in southern company gas retiring the cavern early. early retirement of the cavern could trigger impairment of other long-lived assets associated with the natural gas storage facility. in addition, a subsidiary of southern company has several leveraged lease agreements, with terms ranging up to 45 years, which relate to international and domestic energy generation, distribution, and transportation assets. southern company receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on long-term debt related to these investments. southern company reviews all important lease assumptions at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that a change in assumptions has occurred or may occur. with respect to southern company's subsidiary's investments in leveraged leases, the recovery of its investment is dependent on the profitable operation of the leased assets by the respective lessees. a significant deterioration in the performance of the leased asset could result in the impairment of the related lease receivable. i-36 table of contents index to financial statements quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis financial condition and liquidity "market price risk" of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant's financial statements under "financial instruments" in item 8 herein. see also notes 10 and 11 to the financial statements of southern company, alabama power, and georgia power, notes 9 and 10 to the financial statements of gulf power, mississippi power, and southern company gas, and notes 8 and 9 to the financial statements of southern power in item 8 herein. ii-3 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management's discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. utility regulatory, legislative, and litigation risks southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial state and federal governmental regulation. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies and are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from governmental agencies. the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities seek to recover their costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital) through their retail rates, which must be approved by the applicable state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency. a state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency, in a future rate proceeding, may alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is allowed or modify the current authorized rate of return. rate refunds may also be required. additionally, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional electric operating companies and by southern power and the rates charged to natural gas transportation customers by southern company gas' pipeline investments and for some of its storage assets must be approved by the ferc. these wholesale rates could be affected by changes to southern power's and the traditional electric operating companies' ability to conduct business pursuant to ferc market-based rate authority. retaining this authority from the ferc is important to the traditional electric operating companies' and southern power's ability to remain competitive in the wholesale electric markets. the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries is uncertain. changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs or otherwise negatively affect their results of operations. the southern company system's costs of compliance with environmental laws and satisfying related aros are significant. the costs of compliance with current and future environmental laws and related aros and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of the registrants. the southern company system's operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental agencies through a variety of laws and regulations. compliance with existing environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs including the settlement of aros, a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions or through market-based contracts. there is no assurance, however, that all such costs will be recovered. the registrants expect future compliance expenditures will continue to be significant. the epa has adopted and is implementing regulations governing air and water quality under the clean air act and regulations governing cooling water intake structures and effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants under the clean water act. the epa has also adopted regulations governing the disposal of ccr, including coal ash and gypsum, in landfills and surface impoundments at active generating power plants. the cost estimates for aros related to the disposal of ccr are based on information using various assumptions related to closure and post-closure costs, timing of future cash outlays, inflation and discount rates, and the potential methods for complying with the ccr rule. the traditional electric operating companies will continue to periodically update their aro cost estimates. additionally, environmental laws and regulations covering the handling and disposal of waste and release of hazardous substances could require the southern company system to incur substantial costs to clean up affected sites, including certain current and former operating sites, and locations affected by historical operations or subject to contractual obligations. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new environmental laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to the southern company system. in addition, existing environmental laws and regulations may be impacted by related legal challenges. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements has occurred throughout the u.s. this litigation has included claims for damages alleged to have been caused by co 2 and other emissions, ccr, releases of regulated substances, and alleged exposure to regulated substances, and/or requests for injunctive relief in connection with such matters. i-19 table of contents index to financial statements compliance with any new or revised environmental laws or regulations could affect many areas of the southern company system's operations. the southern company system's ultimate environmental compliance strategy and future environmental expenditures will depend on various factors, such as state adoption and implementation of requirements, the availability and cost of any deployed control technology, and the outcome of pending and/or future legal challenges. compliance costs may result from the installation of additional environmental controls, closure and monitoring of ccr facilities, unit retirements, or changing fuel sources for certain existing units, as well as related upgrades to the southern company system's transmission and distribution (electric and natural gas) systems. environmental compliance spending over the next several years may differ materially from the amounts estimated. such expenditures could affect results of operations, cash flows, and/or financial condition if such costs are not recovered on a timely basis through regulated rates for the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities or through long-term wholesale agreements for the traditional electric operating companies and southern power. further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for energy, which could negatively affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. additionally, many commercial and industrial customers may also be affected by existing and future environmental requirements, which for some may have the potential to ultimately affect their demand for electricity or natural gas. the southern company system may be exposed to regulatory and financial risks related to the impact of ghg legislation, regulation, and emission reduction goals. the epa has published rules limiting co 2 emissions from new, modified, and reconstructed fossil fuel-fired electric generating units and guidelines for states to develop plans to meet epa-mandated co 2 emission performance standards for existing units (known as the clean power plan or cpp). on august 31, 2018, the epa published a proposed rule known as the affordable clean energy (ace) rule, which is intended to replace a regulation enacted in 2015 known as the clean power plan (cpp), that would limit co 2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. the cpp has been stayed by the u.s. supreme court since 2016. the ace rule would require states to develop ghg unit-specific emission rate standards based on heat-rate efficiency improvements for existing fossil fuel-fired steam units. as proposed, combustion turbines, including natural gas combined cycles, are not affected sources. as of january 1, 2019, the southern company system has ownership interests in 40 fossil fuel-fired steam units to which the proposed ace rule is applicable. the ultimate impact of this rule to the southern company system is currently unknown and will depend on changes between the proposal and the final rule, subsequent state plan developments and requirements, and any associated legal challenges. the epa also has proposed a review of final rules adopted in 2015 to establish performance standards for new, modified, and reconstructed electric utility generating units. the impact of any changes will depend on the content of any final rule adopted by the epa and the outcome of any related legal challenges. in april 2018, southern company established an intermediate goal of a 50% reduction in carbon emissions from 2007 levels by 2030 and a long-term goal of low- to no-carbon operations by 2050. to achieve these goals, the southern company system expects to continue growing its renewable energy portfolio, optimize technology advancements to modernize its transmission and distribution systems, increase the use of natural gas for generation, complete ongoing construction projects, including georgia power's interest in plant vogtle units 3 and 4, invest in energy efficiency, and continue research and development efforts focused on technologies to lower ghg emissions. the southern company system's ability to achieve these goals also will be dependent on many external factors, including supportive national energy policies, low natural gas prices, and the development, deployment, and advancement of relevant energy technologies. costs associated with ghg legislation, regulation, and emission reduction goals could be significant. however, the ultimate impact will depend on various factors, such as state adoption and implementation of requirements, low natural gas prices, the development, deployment, and advancement of relevant energy technologies, the ability to recover costs through existing ratemaking provisions, and the outcome of pending and/or future legal challenges. because natural gas is a fossil fuel with lower carbon content relative to other fossil fuels, future ghg constraints, including, but not limited to, the imposition of a carbon tax, may create additional demand for natural gas, both for production of electricity and direct use in homes and businesses. future ghg constraints designed to minimize emissions from natural gas could likewise result in increased costs to the southern company system and affect the demand for natural gas as well as the prices charged to customers and the competitive position of natural gas. i-20 table of contents index to financial statements the net income of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power could be negatively impacted by changes in regulations related to transmission planning processes and competition in the wholesale electric markets. the traditional electric operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. a small percentage of transmission revenues are collected through the wholesale electric tariff but the majority are collected through retail rates. ferc rules pertaining to regional transmission planning and cost allocation present challenges to transmission planning and the wholesale market structure. the key impacts of these rules include: possible disruption of the integrated resource planning processes within the states in the southern company system's service territory; delays and additional processes for developing transmission plans; and possible impacts on state jurisdiction of approving, certifying, and pricing new transmission facilities. the ferc rules related to transmission are intended to spur the development of new transmission infrastructure to promote and encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply as well as facilitate competition in the wholesale market by providing more choices to wholesale power customers. technology changes in the power and fuel industries continue to create significant impacts to wholesale transaction cost structures. the impact of these and other such developments and the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand are uncertain. the financial condition, net income, and cash flows of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power could be adversely affected by these and other changes. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power could be subject to higher costs as a result of implementing and maintaining compliance with the north american electric reliability corporation mandatory reliability standards along with possible associated penalties for non-compliance. owners and operators of bulk power systems, including the traditional electric operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. compliance with or changes in the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional electric operating companies and southern power to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. if any traditional electric operating company or southern power is found to be in noncompliance with these standards, such traditional electric operating company or southern power could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. operational risks the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if the subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of the electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities and natural gas distribution and storage facilities and the successful performance of necessary corporate functions. there are many risks that could affect these operations and performance of corporate functions, including: operator error or failure of equipment or processes; accidents; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements or in connection with joint owner arrangements; labor disputes; physical attacks; fuel or material supply interruptions and/or shortages; transmission disruption or capacity constraints, including with respect to the southern company system's and third parties' transmission, storage, and transportation facilities; compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards; implementation of new technologies; information technology system failures; cyber intrusions; environmental events, such as spills or releases; and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes and other storms, droughts, pandemic health events, or other similar occurrences. a decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or natural gas distribution or storage facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected registrant. i-21 table of contents index to financial statements operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, safety, health, regulatory, natural disasters, cyber intrusions or physical attacks, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of the nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units. the six existing units are operated by southern nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 mws, or 8% of the southern company system's electric generation capacity at january 1, 2019. in addition, these units generated approximately 25% of the total kwhs generated by each of alabama power and georgia power in the year ended december 31, 2018 . in addition, southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other vogtle owners, is managing the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. due solely to the increase in nuclear generating capacity, the below risks are expected to increase incrementally once plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are operational. nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, safety, health, operational, and financial risks such as: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health and safety resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive material, including spent nuclear fuel; uncertainties with respect to the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and the need for longer term on-site storage; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of licensed lives and the ability to maintain and anticipate adequate capital reserves for decommissioning; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the nuclear operations of alabama power and georgia power or those of other commercial nuclear facility owners in the u.s.; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; significant capital expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair of these facilities, including repairs and upgrades required by the nrc; actual or threatened cyber intrusions or physical attacks; and the potential impact of an accident or natural disaster. it is possible that damages, decommissioning, or other costs could exceed the amount of decommissioning trusts or external insurance coverage, including statutorily required nuclear incident insurance. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the nrc could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units or require additional safety measures at new and existing units. moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the u.s., including facilities owned and operated by third parties, could require alabama power and georgia power to make material contributory payments. in addition, actual or potential threats of cyber intrusions or physical attacks could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict. transporting and storing natural gas involves risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. southern company gas' natural gas distribution and storage activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents, explosions, and mechanical problems, which could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of its operations. the location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas could increase the level of damage resulting from these risks. additionally, these pipeline and storage facilities are subject to various state and other regulatory requirements. failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties or potential early retirement of storage facilities, which could trigger an associated impairment. the occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance or otherwise could adversely affect southern company gas' and southern company's financial condition and results of operations. physical attacks, both threatened and actual, could impact the ability of the subsidiary registrants to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. the subsidiary registrants face the risk of physical attacks, both threatened and actual, against their respective generation and storage facilities and the transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport energy, which could negatively impact i-22 table of contents index to financial statements their ability to generate, transport, and deliver power, or otherwise operate their respective facilities, or, with respect to southern company gas, its ability to distribute or store natural gas, or otherwise operate its facilities, in the most efficient manner or at all. in addition, physical attacks against third-party providers could have a similar effect on southern company and its subsidiaries. despite the implementation of robust security measures, all assets are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error, natural disasters, technological failure, or internal or external physical attacks. if assets were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached and were not restored in a timely manner, the affected subsidiary registrant may be unable to fulfill critical business functions. moreover, the amount and scope of insurance maintained against losses resulting from any such events or physical security breaches may not be sufficient to cover losses or otherwise adequately compensate for any disruptions to business that could result. these events could harm the reputation of and negatively affect the financial results of the registrants through lost revenues and costs to repair damage, if such costs cannot be recovered. an information security incident, including a cybersecurity breach, or the failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, or processes could impact the ability of the registrants to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. information security risks have generally increased in recent years as a result of the proliferation of new technology and increased sophistication and frequency of cyber attacks and data security breaches. the subsidiary registrants operate in highly regulated industries that require the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of interconnected distribution systems. because of the critical nature of the infrastructure, increased connectivity to the internet, and technology systems' inherent vulnerability to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism, or other types of data security breaches, southern company and its subsidiaries face a heightened risk of cyberattack. parties that wish to disrupt the u.s. bulk power system or southern company system operations could view these computer systems, software, or networks as targets. the registrants and their third-party vendors have been subject, and will likely continue to be subject, to attempts to gain unauthorized access to their information technology systems and confidential data or to attempts to disrupt utility operations. as a result, southern company and its subsidiaries face on-going threats to their assets, including assets deemed critical infrastructure, where databases and systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to advanced computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, phishing, and other cyber attacks. while there have been immaterial incidents of phishing and attempted financial fraud across the southern company system, there has been no material impact on business or operations from these attacks. however, the registrants cannot guarantee that security efforts will prevent breaches, operational incidents, or other breakdowns of information technology systems and network infrastructure and cannot provide any assurance that such incidents will not have a material adverse effect in the future. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, southern company and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personally identifiable information about customers, employees, and stockholders, and other confidential information. in some cases, administration of certain functions may be outsourced to third-party service providers that could also be targets of cyber attacks. generally, southern company and its subsidiaries enter certain contractual security guarantees and assurances with these third parties to help ensure the security and safety of this information. despite the implementation of robust security measures, all assets are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error, natural disasters, technological failure, or internal or external cyber attacks. if assets were to fail or be breached and were not restored in a timely manner, the affected registrant may be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. any cyber breach or theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data may also subject the affected registrant to penalties and claims from regulators or other third parties. moreover, the amount and scope of insurance maintained against losses resulting from any such events or security breaches may not be sufficient to cover losses or otherwise adequately compensate for any disruptions to business that could result. in addition, as cybercriminals become more sophisticated, the cost of proactive defensive measures may increase. these events could negatively affect the financial results of the registrants through lost revenues, costs to recover and repair damage, costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks, and litigation costs if such costs cannot be recovered through insurance or otherwise. the southern company system may not be able to obtain adequate natural gas, fuel supplies, and other resources required to operate the traditional electric operating companies' and southern power's electric generating plants or serve southern company gas' natural gas customers. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and biomass, as applicable, from a number of suppliers. additionally, the traditional electric operating companies and southern i-23 table of contents index to financial statements power need adequate access to water, which is drawn from nearby sources to aid in the production of electricity and, once it is used, returned to its source. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, or the availability of water, could limit the ability of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power to operate certain facilities, which could result in higher fuel and operating costs and potentially reduce the net income of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power and southern company. southern company gas' primary business is the distribution and sale of natural gas through its regulated and unregulated subsidiaries. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane or a pipeline failure. southern company gas also relies on natural gas pipelines and other storage and transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver natural gas to wholesale markets and to southern company gas' distribution systems. the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility may have a material impact on the supply and cost of natural gas. disruption in natural gas supplies could limit the ability to fulfill these contractual obligations. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power have become more dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity and expect to continue to increase such dependence. in many instances, the cost of purchased power for the traditional electric operating companies and southern power is influenced by natural gas prices. historically, natural gas prices have been more volatile than prices of other fuels. in recent years, domestic natural gas prices have been depressed by robust supplies, including production from shale gas. these market conditions, together with additional regulation of coal-fired generating units, have increased the traditional electric operating companies' reliance on natural gas-fired generating units. the traditional electric operating companies are also dependent on coal for a portion of their electric generating capacity. the traditional electric operating companies depend on coal supply contracts, and the counterparties to these agreements may not fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional electric operating companies. the suppliers may experience financial or technical problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations. in addition, the suppliers may not be required to supply coal under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional electric operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, they may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be recoverable through rates. the revenues of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a counterparty to one of these ppas to perform its obligations, the failure of the traditional electric operating companies or southern power to satisfy minimum requirements under the ppas, or the failure to renew the ppas or successfully remarket the related generating capacity could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power and of southern company. most of southern power's generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas. southern power's top three customers, georgia power, duke energy corporation, and southern california edison accounted for 9.8%, 6.8%, and 6.2%, respectively, of southern power's total revenues for the year ended december 31, 2018 . in addition, the traditional electric operating companies enter into ppas with non-affiliated parties. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these ppas. the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations, including as a result of a general default or bankruptcy, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power and of southern company. although the credit evaluations undertaken and contractual protections implemented by southern power and the traditional electric operating companies take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than predicted or specified in the applicable contract. see note 1 to the financial statements under " revenues concentration of revenue " in item 8 herein for additional information on pacific gas &amp; electric company's bankruptcy filing. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional electric operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. the failure of the traditional electric operating companies or southern power to satisfy minimum operational or availability requirements under these ppas could result in payment of damages or termination of the ppas. the asset management arrangements between southern company gas' wholesale gas services and its customers, including the natural gas distribution utilities, may not be renewed or may be renewed at lower levels, which could have a significant impact on southern company gas' financial results. southern company gas' wholesale gas services currently manages the storage and transportation assets of the natural gas distribution utilities (except nicor gas) as well as certain non-affiliated customers. southern company gas' wholesale gas i-24 table of contents index to financial statements services has a concentration of credit risk for services it provides to its counterparties, which is generally concentrated in 20 of its counterparties. the profits earned from the management of affiliate assets are shared with the respective affiliate's customers (and for atlanta gas light with the georgia psc's universal service fund), except for chattanooga gas where wholesale gas services are provided under annual fixed-fee agreements. these asset management agreements are subject to regulatory approval and such agreements may not be renewed or may be renewed with less favorable terms. the financial results of southern company gas' wholesale gas services could be significantly impacted if any of its agreements with its affiliated or non-affiliated customers are not renewed or are amended or renewed with less favorable terms. sustained low natural gas prices could reduce the demand for these types of asset management arrangements. increased competition could negatively impact southern company's and its subsidiaries' revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. the southern company system faces increasing competition from other companies that supply energy or generation and storage technologies. changes in technology may make the southern company system's electric generating facilities owned by the traditional electric operating companies and southern power less competitive. southern company gas' business is dependent on natural gas prices remaining competitive as compared to other forms of energy. southern company gas also faces competition in its unregulated markets. a key element of the business models of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation and storage technologies that produce and store power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, solar cells, and batteries. advances in technology or changes in laws or regulations could reduce the cost of these or other alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost effective distributed generation that allows for increased self-generation by customers. broader use of distributed generation by retail energy customers may also result from customers' changing perceptions of the merits of utilizing existing generation technology or tax or other economic incentives. additionally, a state psc or legislature may modify certain aspects of the traditional electric operating companies' business as a result of these advances in technology. it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by the traditional electric operating companies and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, or southern power. southern company gas' gas marketing services is affected by competition from other energy marketers providing similar services in southern company gas' service territories, most notably in illinois and georgia. southern company gas' wholesale gas services competes for sales with national and regional full-service energy providers, energy merchants and producers, and pipelines based on the ability to aggregate competitively-priced commodities with transportation and storage capacity. southern company gas competes with natural gas facilities in the gulf coast region of the u.s., as the majority of the existing and proposed high deliverability salt-dome natural gas storage facilities in north america are located in the gulf coast region. if new technologies become cost competitive and achieve sufficient scale, the market share of the subsidiary registrants could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities or natural gas distribution and storage facilities could be reduced. additionally, southern company gas' market share could be reduced if southern company gas cannot remain price competitive in its unregulated markets. if state pscs or other applicable state regulatory agencies fail to adjust rates to reflect the impact of any changes in loads, increasing self-generation, and the growth of distributed generation, the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of southern company and the affected traditional electric operating company or southern company gas could be materially adversely affected. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact southern company's and its subsidiaries' results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges such as lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, including with the workforce needs associated with major construction projects and ongoing operations. the southern company system's costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs, and safety costs, may rise. failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect southern company and its subsidiaries' ability to manage and operate their businesses. if southern company i-25 table of contents index to financial statements and its subsidiaries are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. construction risks the registrants may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. also, existing facilities of the subsidiary registrants require ongoing expenditures, including those to meet aros and other environmental standards and goals. general the businesses of the registrants require substantial expenditures for investments in new facilities and, for the traditional electric operating companies, capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, for southern power, capital improvements to generation facilities, and, for southern company gas, capital improvements to natural gas distribution and storage facilities. these expenditures also include those to meet aros and environmental standards and goals. certain of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. southern company gas is replacing certain pipelines in its natural gas distribution system and is involved in two new gas pipeline construction projects. the southern company system intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, expanding or updating existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. these types of projects are long term in nature and in some cases may include the development and construction of facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. the completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including: shortages, increased costs, or inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; changes in labor costs, availability, and productivity; challenges related to management of contractors, subcontractors, or vendors; work stoppages; contractor or supplier delay; non-performance under construction, operating, or other agreements; delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, tax credits, and other regulatory authorizations; delays in start-up activities (including major equipment failure and system integration) and/or operational performance; operational readiness, including specialized operator training and required site safety programs; impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; the outcome of any legal challenges to projects, including legal challenges to regulatory approvals; failure to construct in accordance with permitting and licensing requirements (including satisfaction of nrc requirements); failure to satisfy any environmental performance standards and the requirements of tax credits and other incentives; continued public and policymaker support for projects; adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; engineering or design problems; changes in project design or scope; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; and increased financing costs as a result of changes in market interest rates or as a result of project delays. if a subsidiary registrant is unable to complete the development or construction of a project or decides to delay or cancel construction of a project, it may not be able to recover its investment in that project and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts, as well as other costs associated with the closure and/or abandonment of the construction project. see note 2 to the financial statements under "kemper county energy facility" for information related to the abandonment of and related closure activities and costs for the mine and gasifier-related assets at the kemper county energy facility. additionally, each southern company gas pipeline construction project involves separate joint venture participants, southern power participates in partnership agreements with respect to renewable energy projects, and georgia power jointly owns plant vogtle units 3 and 4 with other co-owners. any failure by a partner or co-owner to perform its obligations under the applicable agreements could have a material negative impact on the applicable project under construction. in addition, partnership and joint ownership agreements may provide partners or co-owners with certain decision-making authority in connection with projects under construction, including rights to cause the cancellation of a construction project under certain circumstances. even if a construction project (including a joint venture construction project) is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and may not be recoverable through regulated rates, if applicable. in addition, construction delays and contractor i-26 table of contents index to financial statements performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of the affected registrant. see note 2 to the financial statements under "ferc matters southern company gas" for information regarding the atlantic coast pipeline construction delays and the associated cost increase. construction delays could result in the loss of otherwise available tax credits and incentives. furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a registrant may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. once facilities become operational, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional electric operating companies' existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, to provide safe and reliable operations, and/or to meet related retirement obligations. the largest construction project currently underway in the southern company system is plant vogtle units 3 and 4. plant vogtle units 3 and 4 construction and rate recovery background in 2009, the georgia psc certified construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. georgia power holds a 45.7% ownership interest in plant vogtle units 3 and 4. in 2012, the nrc issued the related combined construction and operating licenses, which allowed full construction of the two ap1000 nuclear units (with electric generating capacity of approximately 1,100 mws each) and related facilities to begin. until march 2017, construction on plant vogtle units 3 and 4 continued under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement, which was a substantially fixed price agreement. in march 2017, the epc contractor filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code. in connection with the epc contractor's bankruptcy filing, georgia power, acting for itself and as agent for the vogtle owners, entered into the interim assessment agreement with the epc contractor to allow construction to continue. the interim assessment agreement expired in july 2017 when georgia power, acting for itself and as agent for the other vogtle owners, and the epc contractor entered into the vogtle services agreement. under the vogtle services agreement, westinghouse provides facility design and engineering services, procurement and technical support, and staff augmentation on a time and materials cost basis. in october 2017, georgia power, acting for itself and as agent for the other vogtle owners, executed the bechtel agreement, a cost reimbursable plus fee arrangement, whereby bechtel is reimbursed for actual costs plus a base fee and an at-risk fee, which is subject to adjustment based on bechtel's performance against cost and schedule targets. cost and schedule georgia power's approximate proportionate share of the remaining estimated capital cost to complete plant vogtle units 3 and 4 by the expected in-service dates of november 2021 and november 2022, respectively, is as follows: (in billions) base project capital cost forecast (a)(b) $ 8.0 construction contingency estimate 0.4 total project capital cost forecast (a)(b) 8.4 net investment as of december 31, 2018 (b) (4.6 ) remaining estimate to complete (a) $ 3.8 (a) excludes financing costs expected to be capitalized through afudc of approximately $315 million . (b) net of $1.7 billion received from toshiba under the guarantee settlement agreement and approximately $188 million in related customer refunds. georgia power estimates that its financing costs for construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 will total approximately $3.1 billion , of which $1.9 billion had been incurred through december 31, 2018. as construction continues, challenges with management of contractors, subcontractors, and vendors; labor productivity, availability, and/or cost escalation; procurement, fabrication, delivery, assembly, and/or installation and testing, including any required engineering changes, of plant systems, structures, and components (some of which are based on new technology that only recently began initial operation in the global nuclear industry at this scale); or other issues could arise and change the projected schedule and estimated cost. monthly construction production targets required to maintain the current project schedule will continue to increase significantly throughout 2019. to meet these increasing monthly targets, existing craft construction productivity must improve and additional craft laborers must be retained and deployed. i-27 table of contents index to financial statements georgia power and southern nuclear believe it is a leading practice in connection with a construction project of this size and complexity to periodically validate recent construction progress in comparison to the projected schedule and to verify and update quantities of commodities remaining to install, labor productivity, and forecasted staffing needs. this verification process, led by southern nuclear, was underway as of december 31, 2018 and is expected to be completed during the second quarter 2019. georgia power currently does not anticipate any material changes to the total estimated project capital cost forecast for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 or the expected in-service dates of november 2021 and november 2022, respectively, resulting from this verification process. however, the ultimate impact on cost and schedule, if any, will not be known until the verification process is completed. georgia power is required to report the results and any project impacts to the georgia psc by may 15, 2019. there have been technical and procedural challenges to the construction and licensing of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 at the federal and state level and additional challenges may arise. processes are in place that are designed to assure compliance with the requirements specified in the westinghouse design control document and the combined construction and operating licenses, including inspections by southern nuclear and the nrc that occur throughout construction. as a result of such compliance processes, certain license amendment requests have been filed and approved or are pending before the nrc. various design and other licensing-based compliance matters, including the timely resolution of itaac and the related approvals by the nrc, may arise, which may result in additional license amendments or require other resolution. if any license amendment requests or other licensing-based compliance issues are not resolved in a timely manner, there may be delays in the project schedule that could result in increased costs. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. however, any extension of the project schedule is currently estimated to result in additional base capital costs of approximately $50 million per month, based on georgia power's ownership interests, and afudc of approximately $12 million per month. while georgia power is not precluded from seeking recovery of any future capital cost forecast increase, management will ultimately determine whether or not to seek recovery. any further changes to the capital cost forecast that are not expected to be recoverable through regulated rates will be required to be charged to income and such charges could be material. joint owner contracts in november 2017, the vogtle owners entered into an amendment to their joint ownership agreements for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 to provide for, among other conditions, additional vogtle owner approval requirements. effective august 31, 2018, the vogtle owners further amended the joint ownership agreements to clarify and provide procedures for certain provisions of the joint ownership agreements related to adverse events that require the vote of the holders of at least 90% of the ownership interests in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 to continue construction (as amended, and together with the november 2017 amendment, the vogtle joint ownership agreements). as a result of the increase in the total project capital cost forecast and georgia power's decision not to seek rate recovery of the increase in the base capital costs as described below, the holders of at least 90% of the ownership interests in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 were required to vote to continue construction. on september 26, 2018, the vogtle owners unanimously voted to continue construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. amendments to the vogtle joint ownership agreements in connection with the vote to continue construction, georgia power entered into (i) a binding term sheet (vogtle owner term sheet) with the other vogtle owners and meag's wholly-owned subsidiaries meag power spvj, llc (meag spvj), meag power spvm, llc (meag spvm), and meag power spvp, llc (meag spvp) to take certain actions which partially mitigate potential financial exposure for the other vogtle owners, including additional amendments to the vogtle joint ownership agreements and the purchase of ptcs from the other vogtle owners, and (ii) a term sheet (meag term sheet) with meag and meag spvj to provide funding with respect to meag spvj's ownership interest in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (project j) under certain circumstances. on january 14, 2019, georgia power, meag, and meag spvj entered into an agreement to implement the provisions of the meag term sheet (meag funding agreement). on february 18, 2019, georgia power, the other vogtle owners, and meag's wholly-owned subsidiaries meag spvj, meag spvm, and meag spvp entered into certain amendments to the vogtle joint ownership agreements to implement the provisions of the vogtle owner term sheet (global amendments). pursuant to the global amendments, and consistent with the vogtle owner term sheet, the vogtle joint ownership agreements were modified as follows: (i) each vogtle owner must pay its proportionate share of qualifying construction costs for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 based on its ownership percentage up to the estimated cost at completion (eac) for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 which formed the basis of georgia power's forecast of $8.4 billion in the nineteenth vcm plus $800 million; (ii) georgia power will be responsible for 55.7% of actual qualifying construction costs between $800 million and $1.6 billion over the eac in the nineteenth vcm (resulting in $80 million of potential additional costs to georgia power), with the remaining vogtle owners responsible for 44.3% of such costs pro rata in accordance with their respective ownership interests; and (iii) georgia i-28 table of contents index to financial statements power will be responsible for 65.7% of qualifying construction costs between $1.6 billion and $2.1 billion over the eac in the nineteenth vcm (resulting in a further $100 million of potential additional costs to georgia power), with the remaining vogtle owners responsible for 34.3% of such costs pro rata in accordance with their respective ownership interests. if the eac is revised and exceeds the eac in the nineteenth vcm by more than $2.1 billion, each of the other vogtle owners will have a one-time option at the time the project budget forecast is so revised to tender a portion of its ownership interest to georgia power in exchange for georgia power's agreement to pay 100% of such vogtle owner's remaining share of total construction costs in excess of the eac in the nineteenth vcm plus $2.1 billion. in this event, georgia power will have the option of cancelling the project in lieu of purchasing a portion of the ownership interest of any other vogtle owner. if georgia power accepts the offer to purchase a portion of another vogtle owner's ownership interest in plant vogtle units 3 and 4, the ownership interest(s) to be conveyed from the tendering vogtle owner(s) to georgia power will be calculated based on the proportion of the cumulative amount of construction costs paid by each such tendering vogtle owner(s) and by georgia power as of the cod of plant vogtle unit 4. for purposes of this calculation, payments made by georgia power on behalf of another vogtle owner in accordance with the second and third items described in the paragraph above will be treated as payments made by the applicable vogtle owner. in the event the actual costs of construction at completion of a unit are less than the eac reflected in the nineteenth vcm report and such unit is placed in service in accordance with the schedule projected in the nineteenth vcm report (i.e., plant vogtle unit 3 is placed in service by november 2021 or plant vogtle unit 4 is placed in service by november 2022), georgia power will be entitled to 60.7% of the cost savings with respect to the relevant unit and the remaining vogtle owners will be entitled to 39.3% of such savings on a pro rata basis in accordance with their respective ownership interests. for purposes of the foregoing provisions, qualifying construction costs will not include costs (i) resulting from force majeure events, including governmental actions or inactions (or significant delays associated with issuance of such actions) that affect the licensing, completion, start-up, operations, or financing of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, administrative proceedings or litigation regarding itaac or other regulatory challenges to commencement of operation of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, and changes in laws or regulations governing plant vogtle units 3 and 4, (ii) legal fees and legal expenses incurred due to litigation with contractors or subcontractors that are not subsidiaries or affiliates of southern company, and (iii) additional costs caused by requests from the vogtle owners other than georgia power, except for the exercise of a right to vote granted under the vogtle joint ownership agreements, that increase costs by $100,000 or more. pursuant to the global amendments, and consistent with the vogtle owner term sheet, the provisions of the vogtle joint ownership agreements requiring that vogtle owners holding 90% of the ownership interests in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 vote to continue construction following certain adverse events (project adverse events) were modified. pursuant to the global amendments, the holders of at least 90% of the ownership interests in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 must vote to continue construction if certain project adverse events occur, including: (i) the bankruptcy of toshiba; (ii) the termination or rejection in bankruptcy of certain agreements, including the vogtle services agreement, the bechtel agreement, or the agency agreement with southern nuclear; (iii) georgia power publicly announces its intention not to submit for rate recovery any portion of its investment in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 or the georgia psc determines that any of georgia power's costs relating to the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 will not be recovered in retail rates, excluding any additional amounts paid by georgia power on behalf of the other vogtle owners pursuant to the global amendments described above and the first 6% of costs during any six-month vcm reporting period that are disallowed by the georgia psc for recovery, or for which georgia power elects not to seek cost recovery, through retail rates; and (iv) an incremental extension of one year or more over the most recently approved schedule. under the global amendments, georgia power may cancel the project at any time in its sole discretion. in addition, pursuant to the vogtle joint ownership agreements, the required approval of holders of ownership interests in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 is at least (i) 90% for a change of the primary construction contractor and (ii) 67% for material amendments to the vogtle services agreement or agreements with southern nuclear or the primary construction contractor, including the bechtel agreement. the global amendments provide that if the holders of at least 90% of the ownership interests fail to vote in favor of continuing the project following any future project adverse event, work on plant vogtle units 3 and 4 will continue for a period of 30 days if the holders of more than 50% of the ownership interests vote in favor of continuing construction (majority voting owners). in such a case, the vogtle owners (i) have agreed to negotiate in good faith towards the resumption of the project, (ii) if no agreement is reached during such 30-day period, the project will be cancelled, and (iii) in the event of such a cancellation, the majority voting owners will be obligated to reimburse any other vogtle owner for the incremental costs it incurred during such 30-day negotiation period. i-29 table of contents index to financial statements purchase of ptcs during commercial operation pursuant to the global amendments, and consistent with the vogtle owner term sheet, georgia power has agreed to purchase additional ptcs from opc, dalton, meag spvm, meag spvp, and meag spvj (to the extent any meag spvj ptc rights remain after any purchases required under the meag funding agreement as described below) at varying purchase prices dependent upon the actual cost to complete construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 as compared to the eac reflected in the nineteenth vcm report. the purchases are at the option of the applicable vogtle owner. potential funding to meag project j pursuant to the meag funding agreement, and consistent with the meag term sheet, if meag spvj is unable to make its payments due under the vogtle joint ownership agreements solely as a result of the occurrence of one of the following situations that materially impedes access to capital markets for meag for project j: (i) the conduct of jea or the city of jacksonville, such as jea's legal challenges of its obligations under a ppa with meag (ppa-j), or (ii) ppa-j is declared void by a court of competent jurisdiction or rejected by jea under the applicable provisions of the u.s. bankruptcy code (each of (i) and (ii), a jea default), at meag's request, georgia power will purchase from meag spvj the rights to ptcs attributable to meag spvj's share of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (approximately 206 mws) within 30 days of such request at varying prices dependent upon the stage of construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. the aggregate purchase price of the ptcs, together with any advances made as described in the next paragraph, shall not exceed $300 million. at the option of meag, as an alternative or supplement to georgia power's purchase of ptcs as described above, georgia power has agreed to provide up to $250 million in funding to meag for project j in the form of advances (either advances under the vogtle joint ownership agreements or the purchase of meag project j bonds, at the discretion of georgia power), subject to any required approvals of the georgia psc and the doe. in the event meag spvj certifies to georgia power that it is unable to fund its obligations under the vogtle joint ownership agreements as a result of a jea default and georgia power becomes obligated to provide funding as described above, meag is required to (i) assign to georgia power its right to vote on any future project adverse event and (ii) diligently pursue jea for its breach of ppa-j. in addition, georgia power agreed that it will not sue meag for any amounts due from meag spvj under meag's guarantee of meag spvj's obligations so long as meag spvj complies with the terms of the meag funding agreement as to its payment obligations and the other non-payment provisions of the vogtle joint ownership agreements. under the terms of the meag funding agreement, georgia power may cancel the project in lieu of providing funding in the form of advances or ptc purchases. regulatory matters in december 2017, the georgia psc voted to approve (and issued its related order on january 11, 2018) georgia power's recommendation to continue construction and resolved the following regulatory matters related to plant vogtle units 3 and 4: (i) none of the $3.3 billion of costs incurred through december 31, 2015 and reflected in the fourteenth vcm report should be disallowed from rate base on the basis of imprudence; (ii) the contractor settlement agreement was reasonable and prudent and none of the amounts paid pursuant to the contractor settlement agreement should be disallowed from rate base on the basis of imprudence; (iii) (a) capital costs incurred up to $5.68 billion would be presumed to be reasonable and prudent with the burden of proof on any party challenging such costs, (b) georgia power would have the burden to show that any capital costs above $5.68 billion were prudent, and (c) a revised capital cost forecast of $7.3 billion (after reflecting the impact of payments received under the guarantee settlement agreement and related customer refunds) was found reasonable; (iv) construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 should be completed, with southern nuclear serving as project manager and bechtel as primary contractor; (v) approved and deemed reasonable georgia power's revised schedule placing plant vogtle units 3 and 4 in service in november 2021 and november 2022, respectively; (vi) confirmed that the revised cost forecast does not represent a cost cap and that prudence decisions on cost recovery will be made at a later date, consistent with applicable georgia law; (vii) reduced the roe used to calculate the nccr tariff (a) from 10.95% (the roe rate setting point authorized by the georgia psc in the 2013 arp) to 10.00% effective january 1, 2016, (b) from 10.00% to 8.30%, effective january 1, 2020, and (c) from 8.30% to 5.30%, effective january 1, 2021 (provided that the roe in no case will be less than georgia power's average cost of long-term debt); (viii) reduced the roe used for afudc equity for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 from 10.00% to georgia power's average cost of long-term debt, effective january 1, 2018; and (ix) agreed that upon unit 3 reaching commercial operation, retail base rates would be adjusted to include carrying costs on those capital costs deemed prudent in the vogtle cost settlement agreement. the january 11, 2018 order also stated that if plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are not commercially operational by june 1, 2021 and june 1, 2022, respectively, the roe used to calculate the nccr tariff will be further reduced by 10 basis points each month (but not lower than georgia power's average cost of long-term debt) until the respective unit is commercially operational. the roe reductions negatively impacted earnings by approximately $100 million, $25 million, and $20 million in 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively, and are estimated to have negative earnings impacts of approximately $75 million in 2019 and an aggregate of approximately $615 million from 2020 to 2022. i-30 table of contents index to financial statements in its january 11, 2018 order, the georgia psc also stated if other conditions change and assumptions upon which georgia power's seventeenth vcm report are based do not materialize, the georgia psc reserved the right to reconsider the decision to continue construction. on february 12, 2018, georgia interfaith power &amp; light, inc. (gipl) and partnership for southern equity, inc. (pse) filed a petition appealing the georgia psc's january 11, 2018 order with the fulton county superior court. on march 8, 2018, georgia watch filed a similar appeal to the fulton county superior court for judicial review of the georgia psc's decision and denial of georgia watch's motion for reconsideration. on december 21, 2018, the fulton county superior court granted georgia power's motion to dismiss the two appeals. on january 9, 2019, gipl, pse, and georgia watch filed an appeal of this decision with the georgia court of appeals. georgia power believes the appeal has no merit; however, an adverse outcome in the appeal combined with subsequent adverse action by the georgia psc could have a material impact on southern company's and georgia power's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in preparation for its nineteenth vcm filing, georgia power requested southern nuclear to perform a full cost reforecast for the project. this reforecast, performed prior to the nineteenth vcm filing, resulted in a $0.7 billion increase to the base capital cost forecast reported in the second quarter 2018. this base cost increase primarily resulted from changed assumptions related to the finalization of contract scopes and management responsibilities for bechtel and over 60 subcontractors, labor productivity rates, and craft labor incentives, as well as the related levels of project management, oversight, and support, including field supervision and engineering support. although georgia power believes these incremental costs are reasonable and necessary to complete the project and the georgia psc's order in the seventeenth vcm proceeding specifically states that the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 is not subject to a cost cap, georgia power did not seek rate recovery for these cost increases included in the current base capital cost forecast (or any related financing costs) in the nineteenth vcm report. in connection with future vcm filings, georgia power may request the georgia psc to evaluate costs currently included in the construction contingency estimate for rate recovery as and when they are appropriately included in the base capital cost forecast. after considering the significant level of uncertainty that exists regarding the future recoverability of costs included in the construction contingency estimate since the ultimate outcome of these matters is subject to the outcome of future assessments by management, as well as georgia psc decisions in these future regulatory proceedings, georgia power recorded a total pre-tax charge to income of $1.1 billion ($0.8 billion after tax) in the second quarter 2018, which includes the total increase in the base capital cost forecast and construction contingency estimate. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. see note 2 to the financial statements under "georgia power nuclear construction " in item 8 herein for additional information regarding plant vogtle units 3 and 4. southern company gas' significant investments in pipelines and pipeline development projects involve financial and execution risks. southern company gas has made significant investments in existing pipelines and pipeline development projects. many of the existing pipelines are, and when completed many of the pipeline development projects will be, operated by third parties. if one of these agents fails to perform in a proper manner, the value of the investment could decline and southern company gas could lose part or all of its investment. in addition, from time to time, southern company gas may be required to contribute additional capital to a pipeline joint venture or guarantee the obligations of such joint venture. with respect to certain pipeline development projects, southern company gas will rely on its joint venture partners for construction management and will not exercise direct control over the process. all of the pipeline development projects are dependent on contractors for the successful and timely completion of the projects. further, the development of pipeline projects involves numerous regulatory, environmental, construction, safety, political, and legal uncertainties and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. these projects may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. there may be cost overruns and construction difficulties that cause southern company gas' capital expenditures to exceed its initial expectations. moreover, southern company gas' income will not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a pipeline project. pipeline construction occurs over an extended period of time and southern company gas will not receive material increases in income until the project is placed in service. work continues with state and federal agencies to obtain the required permits to begin construction on the penneast pipeline. any material delays may impact forecasted capital expenditures and the expected in-service date. the atlantic coast pipeline has experienced challenges to its permits since construction began in 2018. during the third and fourth quarters 2018, a ferc stop work order, together with delays in obtaining permits necessary for construction and construction delays due to judicial actions, impacted the cost and schedule for the project. as a result, total project cost estimates have increased and the operator of the joint venture currently expects to achieve a late 2020 in-service date for at least i-31 table of contents index to financial statements key segments of the atlantic coast pipeline, while the remainder may extend into early 2021. abnormal weather, work delays (including due to judicial or regulatory action), and other conditions may result in additional cost or schedule modifications, which could result in an impairment of southern company gas' investment and could have a material impact on southern company's and southern company gas' financial statements. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time and the occurrence of these or any other of the foregoing events could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition of southern company gas and southern company. financial, economic, and market risks the electric generation and energy marketing operations of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power and the natural gas operations of southern company gas are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in energy prices and fuel costs, which may reduce revenues and increase costs. the generation, energy marketing, and natural gas operations of the southern company system are subject to changes in energy prices and fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power, decrease the amount received from the sale of energy, and/or make electric generating facilities less competitive. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. among the factors that could influence energy prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, biomass, and other fuels, as applicable, used in the generation facilities of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power and, in the case of natural gas, distributed by southern company gas, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity and natural gas markets; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity and natural gas; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints, disruptions, or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the southern company system's service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on demand for electricity and the demand for fuels, including natural gas; natural disasters, wars, embargos, physical or cyber attacks, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. these factors could increase the expenses and/or reduce the revenues of the registrants. for the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas' regulated gas distribution operations, such impacts may not be fully recoverable through rates. historically, the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel and/or purchased gas cost balances and may experience such balances in the future. while the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas are generally authorized to recover fuel and/or purchased gas costs through cost recovery clauses, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred, and delays in the authorization of such recovery, both of which could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern company gas and of southern company. the registrants are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, customer behaviors, including increased energy conservation, and adoption patterns of technologies by the customers of the subsidiary registrants. the consumption and use of energy are fundamentally linked to economic activity. this relationship is affected over time by changes in the economy, customer behaviors, and technologies. any economic downturn could negatively impact customer growth and usage per customer, thus reducing the sales of energy and revenues. additionally, any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets, both nationally and internationally, could negatively affect the financial stability of customers and counterparties of the subsidiary registrants. outside of economic disruptions, changes in customer behaviors in response to energy efficiency programs, changing conditions and preferences, or changes in the adoption of technologies could affect the relationship of economic activity to the consumption of energy. both federal and state programs exist to influence how customers use energy, and several of the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas have psc or other applicable state regulatory agency mandates to promote energy efficiency. conservation programs could impact the financial results of the registrants in different ways. for example, if any traditional electric operating company or southern company gas is required to invest in conservation measures that result in i-32 table of contents index to financial statements reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional electric operating company or southern company gas and southern company. customers could also voluntarily reduce their consumption of energy in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy prices, or individual conservation efforts. in addition, the adoption of technology by customers can have both positive and negative impacts on sales. many new technologies utilize less energy than in the past. however, electric and natural gas technologies such as electric and natural gas vehicles can create additional demand. the southern company system uses best available methods and experience to incorporate the effects of changes in customer behavior, state and federal programs, psc or other applicable state regulatory agency mandates, and technology, but the southern company system's planning processes may not appropriately estimate and incorporate these effects. all of the factors discussed above could adversely affect a registrant's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. the operating results of the registrants are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. in addition, catastrophic events, such as fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, and storms, could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of a subsidiary registrant and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity. electric power and natural gas supply are generally seasonal businesses. in many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. in other areas, power demand peaks during the winter months. while the electric power sales of some of the traditional electric operating companies peak in the summer, others peak in the winter. in the aggregate, electric power sales peak during the summer with a smaller peak during the winter. additionally, southern power has variability in its revenues from renewable generation facilities due to seasonal weather patterns primarily from wind and sun. in most of the areas southern company gas serves, natural gas demand peaks during the winter. as a result, the overall operating results of the registrants may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, the subsidiary registrants have historically sold less power and natural gas when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, and available cash of the affected registrant. further, volatile or significant weather events could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional electric operating companies, the generating facilities of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power, and the natural gas distribution and storage facilities of southern company gas. the subsidiary registrants have significant investments in the atlantic and gulf coast regions and southern power and southern company gas have investments in various states which could be subject to severe weather and natural disasters, including wildfires. further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. there have been multiple significant hurricanes in the southern company system service territory in recent years. in the event a traditional electric operating company or southern company gas experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency. historically, the traditional electric operating companies from time to time have experienced deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such deficits in the future. for example, at december 31, 2018, georgia power had a substantial underrecovered balance in its storm cost recovery balance as a result of multiple recent significant hurricanes in its service territory. any denial by the applicable state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional electric operating company's or southern company gas' and on southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional electric operating company or southern company gas or affecting southern power's customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for energy for extended periods and may impact customers' ability to perform under existing ppas. see note 1 to the financial statements under " revenues concentration of revenue " in item 8 herein for additional information on pacific gas &amp; electric company's bankruptcy filing. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand for energy could have a material negative impact on a registrant's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. acquisitions, dispositions, or other strategic ventures or investments may not result in anticipated benefits and may present risks not originally contemplated, which may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries have made significant acquisitions and investments in the past, as well as recent dispositions, and may in the future make additional acquisitions, dispositions, or other strategic ventures or investments, including the pending disposition by southern power of plant mankato, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to southern company or its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries continually seek opportunities to create value i-33 table of contents index to financial statements through various transactions, including acquisitions or sales of assets. specifically, southern power continually seeks opportunities to execute its strategy to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions, dispositions, and sales of partnership interests, development and construction of new generating facilities, and entry into ppas primarily with investor-owned utilities, ipps, municipalities, and other load-serving entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers. southern company and its subsidiaries may face significant competition for transactional opportunities and anticipated transactions may not be completed on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, these transactions are intended to, but may not, result in the generation of cash or income, the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, or the reduction of risk. these transactions may also affect the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. these transactions also involve risks, including: they may not result in an increase in income or provide adequate or expected funds or return on capital or other anticipated benefits; they may result in southern company or its subsidiaries entering into new or additional lines of business, which may have new or different business or operational risks; they may not be successfully integrated into the acquiring company's operations and/or internal control processes; the due diligence conducted prior to a transaction may not uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure or may not appropriately evaluate the likelihood or quantify the exposure from identified risks; they may result in decreased earnings, revenues, or cash flow; southern company, southern company gas, and certain of their subsidiaries have retained obligations in connection with transitional agreements related to dispositions that subject these companies to additional risk; southern company or the applicable subsidiary may not be able to achieve the expected financial benefits from the use of funds generated by any dispositions; expected benefits of a transaction may be dependent on the cooperation or performance of a counterparty; or for the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas, costs associated with such investments that were expected to be recovered through regulated rates may not be recoverable. southern company and southern company gas are holding companies and southern power owns many of its assets indirectly through subsidiaries. each of these companies is dependent on cash flows from their respective subsidiaries to meet their ongoing and future financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness and, for southern company, to pay dividends on its common stock. southern company and southern company gas are holding companies and, as such, they have no operations of their own. substantially all of southern company's and southern company gas' and many of southern power's respective consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. a significant portion of southern company gas' debt is issued by its 100%-owned subsidiary, southern company gas capital, and is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by southern company gas. southern company's, southern company gas' and, to a certain extent, southern power's ability to meet their respective financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, and, for southern company, to pay dividends on its common stock, is dependent on the net income and cash flows of their respective subsidiaries and the ability of those subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay borrowed funds. prior to funding southern company, southern company gas, or southern power, the respective subsidiaries have financial obligations and, with respect to southern company and southern company gas, regulatory restrictions that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. these subsidiaries are separate legal entities and, except as described below, have no obligation to provide southern company, southern company gas, or southern power with funds. certain of southern power's assets are held through controlling interests in subsidiaries. in certain cases, distributions without partner consent are limited to available cash, and the subsidiaries are obligated to distribute all available cash to their owners each quarter. in addition, southern company, southern company gas, and southern power may provide capital contributions or debt financing to subsidiaries under certain circumstances, which would reduce the funds available to meet their respective financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, and to pay dividends on southern company's common stock. a downgrade in the credit ratings of any of the registrants, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require posting of collateral or replacing certain indebtedness. there are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for the registrants, southern company gas capital, and nicor gas, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. the registrants, southern company gas capital, and nicor gas could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any rating agency concludes that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or the applicable company has deteriorated. changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if one or more rating agencies downgrade any registrant, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas, borrowing i-34 table of contents index to financial statements costs likely would increase, including automatic increases in interest rates under applicable term loans and credit facilities, the pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, significant collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. any credit rating downgrades could require altering the mix of debt financing currently used, and could require the issuance of secured indebtedness and/or indebtedness with additional restrictive covenants binding the applicable company. uncertainty in demand for energy can result in lower earnings or higher costs. if demand for energy falls short of expectations, it could result in potentially stranded assets. if demand for energy exceeds expectations, it could result in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional electric generation and transmission facilities or natural gas distribution and storage facilities. southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power each engage in a long-term planning process to estimate the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. southern company gas engages in a long-term planning process to estimate the optimal mix and timing of building new pipelines and storage facilities, replacing existing pipelines, rewatering storage facilities, and entering new markets and/or expanding in existing markets. these planning processes must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation and associated transmission facilities and natural gas distribution and storage facilities. inherent risk exists in predicting demand as future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. because regulators may not permit the traditional electric operating companies or southern company gas' regulated operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation and associated transmission assets and/or new pipelines and related infrastructure in a timely manner or at all, southern company and its subsidiaries may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs and the recovery in customers' rates. in addition, under southern power's model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term ppas, southern power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. southern power and/or the traditional electric operating companies may not be able to extend existing ppas or find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing ppas expire, or they may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected registrant. the traditional electric operating companies are currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. southern power is currently obligated to supply power to wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed the southern company system's available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional electric operating companies purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation and transmission facilities and that southern power purchase energy or capacity on the open market. because regulators may not permit the traditional electric operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional electric operating companies may not be able to recover some or all of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional electric operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. under southern power's long-term fixed price ppas, southern power may not be able to recover all of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected registrant. the businesses of the registrants, segco, and nicor gas are dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. the inability of any of the registrants, segco, or nicor gas to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that it may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. the registrants, segco, and nicor gas rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if any of the registrants, segco, or nicor gas is not able to access capital at competitive rates or on favorable terms, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that it may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. in addition, the registrants, segco, and nicor gas rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. each of the registrants, segco, and nicor gas believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain events or market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or the ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn or uncertainty; bankruptcy or financial distress at an unrelated energy company, financial institution, or sovereign entity; capital markets volatility and disruption, either nationally or internationally; changes in tax policy, including further interpretation and guidance on tax reform; i-35 table of contents index to financial statements volatility in market prices for electricity and natural gas; actual or threatened cyber or physical attacks on the southern company system's facilities or unrelated energy companies' facilities; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. georgia power's ability to make future borrowings through its term loan credit facility with the ffb is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, as well as certification of compliance with the requirements of the loan guarantee program under title xvii of the energy policy act of 2005, including accuracy of project-related representations and warranties, delivery of updated project-related information and evidence of compliance with the prevailing wage requirements of the davis-bacon act of 1931, as amended, and certification from the doe's consulting engineer that proceeds of the advances are used to reimburse certain costs of construction relating to plant vogtle units 3 and 4 that are eligible for financing under the title xvii loan guarantee program. prior to obtaining any further advances under georgia power's loan guarantee agreement with the doe, georgia power is required to obtain the doe's approval of the bechtel agreement. failure to comply with debt covenants or conditions could adversely affect the ability of the registrants, segco, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas to execute future borrowings. the debt and credit agreements of the registrants, segco, southern company gas capital, and nicor gas contain various financial and other covenants. georgia power's loan guarantee agreement with the doe contains additional covenants, events of default, and mandatory prepayment events relating to the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements, which would negatively affect the applicable company's financial condition and liquidity. volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan costs and the funding available for nuclear decommissioning. the costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefit plans are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, changes in actuarial assumptions, government regulations, and/or life expectancy, and the frequency and amount of the southern company system's required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual values, as well as a significant decline in the value of investments that fund the pension and other postretirement plans, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in plan liabilities, could increase pension and other postretirement expense, and the southern company system could be required from time to time to fund the pension plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations. additionally, alabama power and georgia power each hold significant assets in their nuclear decommissioning trusts to satisfy obligations to decommission alabama power's and georgia power's nuclear plants. the rate of return on assets held in those trusts can significantly impact both the funding available for decommissioning and the funding requirements for the trusts. the registrants are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable costs. the financial condition of some insurance companies, actual or threatened physical or cyber attacks, and natural disasters, among other things, could have disruptive effects on insurance markets. the availability of insurance covering risks that the registrants and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that the registrants are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. further, the insurance policies may not cover all of the potential exposures or the actual amount of loss incurred. any losses not covered by insurance, or any increases in the cost of applicable insurance, could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of the affected registrant. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of the registrants or in reported net income volatility. southern company and its subsidiaries use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, manage foreign currency exchange rate exposure and engage in limited trading activities. the registrants could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. the factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable further into the i-36 table of contents index to financial statements future. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. in addition, southern company gas utilizes derivative instruments to lock in economic value in wholesale gas services, which may not qualify as, or may not be designated as, hedges for accounting purposes. the difference in accounting treatment for the underlying position and the financial instrument used to hedge the value of the contract can cause volatility in reported net income of southern company and southern company gas while the positions are open due to mark-to-market accounting. future impairments of goodwill or long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on the registrants' results of operations. goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually and more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value and long-lived assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. in connection with the completion of the merger, the application of the acquisition method of accounting was pushed down to southern company gas. the excess of the purchase price over the fair values of southern company gas' assets and liabilities was recorded as goodwill. this resulted in a significant increase in the goodwill recorded on southern company's and southern company gas' consolidated balance sheets. at december 31, 2018, goodwill was $5.3 billion and $5.0 billion for southern company and southern company gas, respectively. in addition, southern company and its subsidiaries have long-lived assets recorded on their balance sheets. to the extent the value of goodwill or long-lived assets become impaired, the affected registrant may be required to incur impairment charges that could have a material impact on their results of operations. for example, a wholly-owned subsidiary of southern company gas owns and operates a natural gas storage facility consisting of two salt dome caverns where recent seismic mapping indicates that proximity of one of the caverns to the edge of the salt dome may be less than the required minimum and could result in southern company gas retiring the cavern early. early retirement of the cavern could trigger impairment of other long-lived assets associated with the natural gas storage facility. in addition, a subsidiary of southern company has several leveraged lease agreements, with terms ranging up to 45 years, which relate to international and domestic energy generation, distribution, and transportation assets. southern company receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on long-term debt related to these investments. southern company reviews all important lease assumptions at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that a change in assumptions has occurred or may occur. with respect to southern company's subsidiary's investments in leveraged leases, the recovery of its investment is dependent on the profitable operation of the leased assets by the respective lessees. a significant deterioration in the performance of the leased asset could result in the impairment of the related lease receivable. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis financial condition and liquidity "market price risk" of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 to the financial statements under "financial instruments" in item 8 herein. also see notes 13 and 14 to the financial statements in item 8 herein. ii-213 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors in addition to the other information in this form 10-k, including management's discussion and analysis future earnings potential in item 7, and other documents filed by southern company and/or its subsidiaries with the sec from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating southern company and its subsidiaries. such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, southern company and/or its subsidiaries. utility regulatory, legislative, and litigation risks southern company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial federal, state, and local governmental regulation, including with respect to rates. compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to southern company and its subsidiaries. laws and regulations govern the terms and conditions of the services the southern company system offers, protection of critical electric infrastructure assets, transmission planning, reliability, pipeline safety, interaction with wholesale markets, and relationships with affiliates, among other matters. the registrants' businesses are subject to regulatory regimes which could result in substantial monetary penalties if a registrant is found to be noncompliant. the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities seek to recover their costs, including compliance costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital), through their retail rates, which must be approved by the applicable state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency. such regulators, in a future rate proceeding, may alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is allowed or modify the current authorized rate of return. rate refunds may also be required. additionally, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional electric operating companies and by southern power and the rates charged to natural gas transportation customers by southern company gas' pipeline investments and for some of its storage assets must be approved by the ferc. these wholesale rates could be affected by changes to southern power's and the traditional electric operating companies' ability to conduct business pursuant to ferc market-based rate authority. a small percentage of transmission revenues are collected through wholesale electric tariffs but the majority are collected through retail rates. ferc rules pertaining to regional transmission planning and cost allocation, which are intended to spur the development of new transmission infrastructure to promote the integration of renewable resources as well as facilitate competition in the wholesale market by providing more choices to wholesale customers, present challenges to transmission planning and the wholesale market structure. the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to southern company or any of its subsidiaries is uncertain. changes in regulation, the imposition of additional regulations, changes in enforcement practices of regulators, or penalties imposed for noncompliance with existing laws or regulations could influence the operating environment of southern company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs or otherwise negatively affect their results of operations. the southern company system's costs of compliance with environmental laws and satisfying related aros are significant and could negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of the registrants. the southern company system's operations are regulated by state and federal environmental agencies through a variety of laws and regulations governing air, water, land, and other natural resources. compliance with existing environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs including the settlement of aros, a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through retail and wholesale rates. there is no assurance, however, that all such costs will be recovered. the registrants expect future compliance expenditures will continue to be significant. the epa has adopted and is implementing regulations governing air quality under the clean air act and water quality under the clean water act, including regulations governing cooling water intake structures and effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants. the epa has also adopted regulations governing the disposal of ccr, including coal ash and gypsum, in landfills and surface impoundments at active generating power plants. the cost estimates for aros related to the disposal of ccr are based on information using various assumptions related to closure and post-closure costs, timing of future cash outlays, inflation and discount rates, and the potential methods for complying with the ccr rule. the traditional electric operating companies will continue to periodically update their aro cost estimates. additionally, environmental laws and regulations covering the handling and disposal of waste and release of hazardous substances could require the southern company system to incur substantial costs to clean up affected sites, including certain current and former operating sites, and locations subject to contractual obligations. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements has occurred throughout the u.s. this litigation has included claims for damages i-17 table of contents index to financial statements alleged to have been caused by co 2 and other emissions, ccr, releases of regulated substances, and alleged exposure to regulated substances, and/or requests for injunctive relief in connection with such matters. compliance with any new or revised environmental laws or regulations could affect many areas of operations for the southern company system. the southern company system's ultimate environmental compliance strategy and future environmental expenditures will depend on various factors, such as state adoption and implementation of requirements, the availability and cost of any deployed control technology, fuel prices, and the outcome of pending and/or future legal challenges. compliance costs may result from the installation of additional environmental controls, closure and monitoring of ccr facilities, unit retirements, or changing fuel sources for certain existing units, as well as related upgrades to the southern company system's transmission and distribution (electric and natural gas) systems. environmental compliance spending over the next several years may differ materially from the amounts estimated and could affect results of operations, cash flows, and/or financial condition if such costs cannot continue to be recovered on a timely basis. further, increased costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity and natural gas, which could negatively affect results of operations, cash flows, and/or financial condition. additionally, many commercial and industrial customers may also be affected by existing and future environmental requirements, which for some may have the potential to affect their demand for electricity or natural gas. the southern company system may be exposed to regulatory and financial risks related to the impact of ghg legislation, regulation, and emission reduction goals. costs associated with ghg legislation, regulation, and emission reduction goals could be significant. additional ghg policies, including legislation, may emerge in the future requiring the united states to transition to a lower ghg emitting economy. however, the ultimate impact will depend on various factors, such as state adoption and implementation of requirements, low natural gas prices, the development, deployment, and advancement of relevant energy technologies, the ability to recover costs through existing ratemaking provisions, and the outcome of pending and/or future legal challenges. because natural gas is a fossil fuel with lower carbon content relative to other fossil fuels, future ghg constraints, including, but not limited to, the imposition of a carbon tax, may create additional demand for natural gas, both for production of electricity and direct use in homes and businesses. future ghg constraints designed to minimize emissions from natural gas could likewise result in increased costs to the southern company system and affect the demand for natural gas as well as the prices charged to customers and the competitive position of natural gas. in april 2018, southern company established an intermediate goal of a 50% reduction in carbon emissions from 2007 levels by 2030 and a long-term goal of low- to no-carbon operations by 2050. the southern company system's ability to achieve these goals depends on many external factors, including supportive national energy policies, low natural gas prices, and the development, deployment, and advancement of relevant energy technologies. the southern company system expects to continue cost-effectively growing its renewable energy portfolio, optimizing technology advancements to modernize its transmission and distribution systems, increasing the use of natural gas for generation, completing plant vogtle units 3 and 4, investing in energy efficiency, and continuing research and development efforts focused on technologies to lower ghg emissions. the southern company system is also evaluating methods of removing carbon from the atmosphere. see management's discussion and analysis future earnings potential "environmental matters global climate issues" in item 7 herein for additional information. operational risks the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if the subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions. the financial performance of southern company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of the electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, natural gas distribution and storage facilities, and distributed generation storage technologies and the successful performance of necessary corporate functions. there are many risks that could affect these operations and performance of corporate functions, including operator error or failure of equipment or processes, accidents, operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements or in connection with joint owner arrangements, labor disputes, physical attacks, fuel or material supply interruptions and/or shortages, transmission disruption or capacity constraints, including with respect to the southern company system's and third parties' transmission, storage, and transportation facilities, compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards, implementation of new technologies, information technology (it) system failures, cyber intrusions, environmental events, such as spills or releases, and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes and other storms, droughts, pandemic health events, or other similar occurrences. i-18 table of contents index to financial statements a decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or natural gas distribution or storage facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected registrant. operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, safety, health, regulatory, natural disasters, cyber intrusions or physical attacks, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of the nuclear units owned by alabama power or georgia power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage. alabama power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and georgia power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units. the six existing units are operated by southern nuclear and represented approximately 25% and 26% of the total kwhs generated by alabama power and georgia power, respectively, in the year ended december 31, 2019 . in addition, southern nuclear, on behalf of georgia power and the other vogtle owners, is managing the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, safety, health, operational, and financial risks such as: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health and safety resulting from a release of radioactive materials; uncertainties with respect to the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and the need for longer term on-site storage; uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of licensed lives and the ability to maintain and anticipate adequate capital reserves for decommissioning; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with any nuclear operations; and significant capital expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair of these facilities. damages, decommissioning, or other costs could exceed the amount of decommissioning trusts or external insurance coverage, including statutorily required nuclear incident insurance. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. nrc orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future nrc safety requirements could require alabama power and georgia power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. in addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could result in substantial costs to alabama power or georgia power and southern company. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units or require additional safety measures at new and existing units. moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the u.s., including facilities owned and operated by third parties, could require alabama power and georgia power to make material contributory payments. in addition, actual or potential threats of cyber intrusions or physical attacks could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict. transporting and storing natural gas involves risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. southern company gas' natural gas distribution and storage activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents, explosions, and mechanical problems, which could result in serious injury, loss of life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of its operations. the location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas could increase the level of damage resulting from these risks. additionally, these pipeline and storage facilities are subject to various state and other regulatory requirements. failure to comply with these requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties or potential early retirement of storage facilities, which could trigger an associated impairment. the occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance or otherwise could adversely affect southern company gas' and southern company's financial condition and results of operations. physical attacks, both threatened and actual, could impact the ability of the subsidiary registrants to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. the subsidiary registrants face the risk of physical attacks, both threatened and actual, against their respective generation and storage facilities and the transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport energy, which could negatively impact their ability to generate, transport, and deliver power, or otherwise operate their respective facilities, or, with respect to southern company gas, its ability to distribute or store natural gas, or otherwise operate its facilities, in the most efficient manner or at all. in addition, physical attacks against third-party providers could have a similar effect on the southern company system. despite the implementation of robust security measures, all assets are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error, natural disasters, technological failure, or internal or external physical attacks. if assets i-19 table of contents index to financial statements were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached and were not restored in a timely manner, the affected subsidiary registrant may be unable to fulfill critical business functions. moreover, the amount and scope of insurance maintained against losses resulting from any such events or physical security breaches may not be sufficient to cover losses or otherwise adequately compensate for any disruptions to business that could result. these events could harm the reputation of and negatively affect the financial results of the registrants through lost revenues and costs to repair damage, if such costs cannot be recovered. an information security incident, including a cybersecurity breach, or the failure of one or more key it systems, networks, or processes could impact the ability of the registrants to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity. information security risks have generally increased in recent years as a result of the proliferation of new technology and increased sophistication and frequency of cyber attacks and data security breaches. the subsidiary registrants operate in highly regulated industries that require the continued operation of sophisticated it systems and network infrastructure, which are part of interconnected distribution systems. because of the critical nature of the infrastructure, increased connectivity to the internet, and technology systems' inherent vulnerability to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism, or other types of data security breaches, the southern company system faces a heightened risk of cyberattack. parties that wish to disrupt the u.s. bulk power system or southern company system operations could view these computer systems, software, or networks as targets. the registrants and their third-party vendors have been subject, and will likely continue to be subject, to attempts to gain unauthorized access to their it systems and confidential data or to attempts to disrupt utility operations. as a result, southern company and its subsidiaries face on-going threats to their assets, including assets deemed critical infrastructure, where databases and systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to advanced computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, phishing, and other cyber attacks. while there have been immaterial incidents of phishing and attempted financial fraud across the southern company system, there has been no material impact on business or operations from these attacks. however, the registrants cannot guarantee that security efforts will prevent breaches, operational incidents, or other breakdowns of it systems and network infrastructure and cannot provide any assurance that such incidents will not have a material adverse effect in the future. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, southern company and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personally identifiable information about customers, employees, and stockholders, and other confidential information. in some cases, administration of certain functions may be outsourced to third-party service providers that could also be targets of cyber attacks. despite the implementation of robust security measures, all assets are potentially vulnerable to internal or external cyber attacks, which may inhibit the affected registrant's ability to fulfill critical business functions and compromise sensitive and other data. any cyber breach or theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data may also subject the affected registrant to penalties and claims from regulators or other third parties. moreover, the amount and scope of insurance may not be sufficient to cover losses or otherwise adequately compensate for any disruptions to business that could result. in addition, as cybercriminals become more sophisticated, the cost of proactive defensive measures may increase. these events could negatively affect the financial results of the registrants through lost revenues, costs to recover and repair damage, costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks, and litigation costs if such costs cannot be recovered through insurance or otherwise. the southern company system may not be able to obtain adequate natural gas, fuel supplies, and other resources required to operate the traditional electric operating companies' and southern power's electric generating plants or serve southern company gas' natural gas customers. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power also need adequate access to water, which is drawn from nearby sources, to aid in the production of electricity and, once it is used, returned to its source. disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting fuel suppliers, or the availability of water, could limit the ability of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power to operate certain facilities, which could result in higher fuel and operating costs and potentially reduce the net income of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power and southern company. natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane or a pipeline failure. the southern company system also relies on natural gas pipelines and other storage and transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver natural gas to wholesale markets and to its distribution i-20 table of contents index to financial statements systems. the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility may have a material impact on the supply and cost of natural gas. disruption in natural gas supplies could limit the ability to fulfill contractual obligations. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power have become more dependent on natural gas for a majority of their electric generating capacity and expect to continue to increase such dependence. in many instances, the cost of purchased power is influenced by natural gas prices. historically, natural gas prices have been more volatile than prices of other fuels. in recent years, domestic natural gas prices have been depressed by robust supplies, including production from shale gas. these market conditions, together with additional regulation of coal-fired generating units, have increased the traditional electric operating companies' reliance on natural gas-fired generating units. the traditional electric operating companies are also dependent on coal for a portion of their electric generating capacity. the traditional electric operating companies depend on coal supply contracts, and the counterparties to these agreements may not fulfill their obligations to supply coal because of financial or technical problems. in addition, the suppliers may not be required to supply coal under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if the traditional electric operating companies are unable to obtain their contracted coal requirements, they may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be recoverable through rates. the revenues of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power depend in part on sales under ppas. the failure of a ppa counterparty to perform its obligations, the failure of a southern company subsidiary to satisfy minimum requirements under the ppas, or the failure to renew the ppas or successfully remarket the related generating capacity could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power and/or of southern company. most of southern power's generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under ppas. southern power's top three customers, georgia power, southern california edison, and morgan stanley capital group accounted for 9.0%, 6.8%, and 4.9%, respectively, of southern power's total revenues for the year ended december 31, 2019 . the traditional electric operating companies have entered into ppas with non-affiliated parties. the revenues related to ppas are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations. the failure of a purchaser to perform its obligations, including as a result of a general default or bankruptcy, could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern power and of southern company. although the credit evaluations undertaken and contractual protections implemented by southern power and the traditional electric operating companies take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than predicted or specified in the applicable contract. see note 1 to the financial statements under " revenues concentration of revenue " in item 8 herein for additional information on the potential impacts of pacific gas &amp; electric company's bankruptcy filing. additionally, neither southern power nor any traditional electric operating company can predict whether the ppas will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. the failure of a southern company subsidiary to satisfy minimum operational or availability requirements under these ppas, including ppas related to fuel cell technology, could result in payment of damages or termination of the ppas. the asset management arrangements between southern company gas' wholesale gas services and its customers, including the natural gas distribution utilities, may not be renewed or may be renewed at lower levels, which could have a significant impact on southern company gas' financial results. southern company gas' wholesale gas services currently manages the storage and transportation assets of the natural gas distribution utilities (except nicor gas) as well as certain non-affiliated customers. southern company gas' wholesale gas services has a concentration of credit risk for services it provides to its counterparties, which is generally concentrated in 20 of its counterparties. the profits earned from the management of affiliate assets are shared with the respective affiliate's customers (and for atlanta gas light with the georgia psc's universal service fund), except for chattanooga gas where wholesale gas services are provided under annual fixed-fee agreements. these asset management agreements are subject to regulatory approval and such agreements may not be renewed or may be renewed with less favorable terms. the financial results of southern company gas' wholesale gas services could be significantly impacted if any of its agreements with its affiliated or non-affiliated customers are not renewed or are amended or renewed with less favorable terms. sustained low natural gas prices could reduce the demand for these types of asset management arrangements. i-21 table of contents index to financial statements increased competition from other companies that supply energy or generation and storage technologies could negatively impact southern company's and its subsidiaries' revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. a key element of the business models of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. advances in technology or changes in laws or regulations could reduce the cost of distributed generation storage technologies or other alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost effective distributed generation that allows for increased self-generation by customers. broader use of distributed generation by retail energy customers may also result from customers' changing perceptions of the merits of utilizing existing generation technology or tax or other economic incentives. additionally, a state psc or legislature may modify certain aspects of the traditional electric operating companies' business as a result of these advances in technology. it is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by the traditional electric operating companies and southern power. changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, or southern power. southern company gas' business is dependent on natural gas prices remaining competitive as compared to other forms of energy. southern company gas' gas marketing services segment also is affected by competition from other energy marketers providing similar services in southern company gas' unregulated service territories, most notably in illinois and georgia. southern company gas' wholesale gas services competes for sales with national and regional full-service energy providers, energy merchants and producers, and pipelines based on the ability to aggregate competitively-priced commodities with transportation and storage capacity. southern company gas competes with natural gas facilities in the gulf coast region of the u.s., as the majority of the existing and proposed high deliverability salt-dome natural gas storage facilities in north america are located in the gulf coast region. if new technologies become cost competitive and achieve sufficient scale, the market share of the subsidiary registrants could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities or natural gas distribution and storage facilities could be reduced. additionally, southern company gas' market share could be reduced if southern company gas cannot remain price competitive in its unregulated markets. if state pscs or other applicable state regulatory agencies fail to adjust rates to reflect the impact of any changes in loads, increasing self-generation, and the growth of distributed generation, the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of southern company and the affected traditional electric operating company or southern company gas could be materially adversely affected. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact southern company's and its subsidiaries' results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges such as lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, including with the workforce needs associated with major construction projects and ongoing operations. the southern company system's costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs, and safety costs, may rise. failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect southern company and its subsidiaries' ability to manage and operate their businesses. as a result of the increased demand for skilled linemen in california and the northeast, portions of the southern company system experienced higher than normal turnover in 2019. the southern company system is diligently working to attract and train qualified linemen. if southern company and its subsidiaries are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted. construction risks the registrants have incurred and may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. also, existing facilities of the subsidiary registrants require ongoing expenditures, including those to meet aros and other environmental standards and goals. general the businesses of the registrants require substantial expenditures for investments in new facilities and, for the traditional electric operating companies, capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, for southern power, capital improvements to generation facilities, and, for southern company gas, capital improvements to natural gas distribution i-22 table of contents index to financial statements and storage facilities. these expenditures also include those to settle aros and meet environmental standards and goals. the traditional electric operating companies and southern power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental modifications to certain existing generating facilities. the traditional electric operating companies also are in the process of closing ash ponds to comply with the ccr rule and, where applicable, state ccr rules. southern company gas is replacing certain pipelines in its natural gas distribution system and is involved in two new gas pipeline construction projects. the southern company system intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing new electric generating facilities, expanding and improving the electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution systems, and undertaking projects to comply with environmental laws and regulations. these projects are long term in nature and in some cases may include the development and construction of facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. the completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks that have occurred or may occur, including: shortages, delays, increased costs, or inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor; challenges with management of contractors, subcontractors, or vendors; work stoppages; contractor or supplier delay; nonperformance under construction, operating, or other agreements; delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, tax credits, and other regulatory authorizations; challenges with start-up activities (including major equipment failure, system integration, or regional transmission upgrades) and/or operational performance; operational readiness, including specialized operator training and required site safety programs; impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations; the outcome of any legal challenges to projects, including legal challenges to regulatory approvals; failure to construct in accordance with permits and licenses (including satisfaction of nrc requirements); failure to satisfy any environmental performance standards and the requirements of tax credits and other incentives; continued public and policymaker support for projects; adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; engineering or design problems; design and other licensing-based compliance matters; environmental and geological conditions; delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; and increased financing costs as a result of changes in market interest rates or as a result of project delays. if a subsidiary registrant is unable to complete the development or construction of a project or decides to delay or cancel construction of a project, it may not be able to recover its investment in that project and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts, as well as other costs associated with the closure and/or abandonment of the construction project. in addition, partnership and joint ownership agreements may provide partners or co-owners with certain decision-making authority in connection with projects under construction, including rights to cause the cancellation of a construction project under certain circumstances. any failure by a partner or co-owner to perform its obligations under the applicable agreements could have a material negative impact on the applicable project under construction. certain southern company gas pipeline development projects involve separate joint venture participants that own a majority of the project, southern power participates in partnership agreements with respect to a majority of its renewable energy projects, georgia power jointly owns plant vogtle units 3 and 4 with other co-owners, and mississippi power jointly owns plant daniel with gulf power. see note 5 to the financial statements under " joint ownership agreements " in item 8 herein for additional information regarding jointly-owned facilities. if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a registrant may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income. furthermore, construction delays associated with renewable projects could result in the loss of otherwise available tax credits and incentives. even if a construction project (including a joint venture construction project) is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and may not be recoverable through regulated rates, if applicable. in addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of the affected registrant. the largest construction project currently underway in the southern company system is plant vogtle units 3 and 4. southern company and georgia power recorded a pre-tax estimated probable loss of $1.1 billion ($0.8 billion after tax) in 2018 to reflect georgia power's revised estimate to complete construction and start-up of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. see note 2 to the financial statements under "georgia power nuclear construction " in item 8 herein for information regarding plant vogtle units 3 and 4. also see note 3 to the financial statements under " other matters southern company i-23 table of contents index to financial statements gas gas pipeline projects " for information regarding the construction delays and the associated cost increases for southern company gas' pipeline construction projects and note 15 to the financial statements under "southern company gas proposed sale of pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline " in item 8 herein for information regarding the proposed sale of southern company gas' interests in atlantic coast pipeline. once facilities become operational, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. significant portions of the traditional electric operating companies' existing facilities were constructed many years ago. older equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, to provide safe and reliable operations, and/or to meet related retirement obligations. southern company gas' significant investments in pipelines and pipeline development projects involve financial and execution risks. southern company gas has made significant investments in existing pipelines and pipeline development projects. many of the existing pipelines are, and, when completed, the pipeline development projects will be, operated by third parties. if one of these agents fails to perform in a proper manner, the value of the investment could decline and southern company gas could lose part or all of its investment. in addition, southern company gas is required to fulfill capital obligations to pipeline joint ventures or, as necessary, guarantee the obligations of such joint venture. with respect to certain pipeline development projects, southern company gas will rely on its joint venture partners for construction management and will not exercise direct control over the process. all of the pipeline development projects are dependent on contractors for the successful and timely completion of the projects. further, the development of pipeline projects involves numerous regulatory, environmental, construction, safety, political, and legal uncertainties and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. these projects may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. there may be cost overruns and construction difficulties that cause southern company gas' capital expenditures to exceed its initial expectations, which may impact the earnings of the joint venture partnerships. moreover, southern company gas' income will not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a pipeline project. pipeline construction occurs over an extended period of time and southern company gas will not receive material increases in income until the project is placed in service. at december 31, 2019, southern company gas was involved in two gas pipeline development projects, the atlantic coast pipeline project and the penneast pipeline project. see note 3 to the financial statements under "other matters southern company gas gas pipeline projects" in item 8 herein for information regarding these projects and note 15 to the financial statements under "southern company gas proposed sale of pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline " in item 8 herein for information regarding the proposed sale of southern company gas' interests in atlantic coast pipeline. financial, economic, and market risks the electric generation and energy marketing operations of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power and the natural gas operations of southern company gas are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in energy prices and fuel costs, which may reduce revenues and increase costs. the generation, energy marketing, and natural gas operations of the southern company system are subject to changes in energy prices and fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power, decrease the amount received from the sale of energy, and/or make electric generating facilities less competitive. the market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. among the factors that could influence energy prices and fuel costs are: prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and other fuels, as applicable, used in the generation facilities of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power and, in the case of natural gas, distributed by southern company gas, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities; demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors; liquidity in the general wholesale electricity and natural gas markets; weather conditions impacting demand for electricity and natural gas; seasonality; transmission or transportation constraints, disruptions, or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; forced or unscheduled plant outages for the southern company system, its competitors, or third party providers; the financial condition of market participants; the economy in the southern company system's service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on demand for electricity and the demand for fuels, including natural gas; natural disasters, wars, embargos, physical or cyber attacks, and other catastrophic events; and federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation. i-24 table of contents index to financial statements these factors could increase the expenses and/or reduce the revenues of the registrants. for the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas' regulated gas distribution operations, such impacts may not be fully recoverable through rates. historically, the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel and/or purchased gas cost balances and may experience such balances in the future. while the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas are generally authorized to recover fuel and/or purchased gas costs through cost recovery clauses, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred and there may be delays in the authorization of such recovery. these factors could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or southern company gas and of southern company. the registrants are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, customer behaviors, including increased energy conservation, and adoption patterns of technologies by the customers of the subsidiary registrants. the consumption and use of energy are linked to economic activity. this relationship is affected over time by changes in the economy, customer behaviors, and technologies. any economic downturn could negatively impact customer growth and usage per customer, thus reducing the sales of energy and revenues. additionally, any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets, both nationally and internationally, could negatively affect the financial stability of customers and counterparties of the subsidiary registrants. outside of economic disruptions, changes in customer behaviors in response to energy efficiency programs, changing conditions and preferences, or changes in the adoption of technologies could affect the relationship of economic activity to the consumption of energy. for example, some cities in the united states recently banned the use of natural gas in new construction. both federal and state programs exist to influence how customers use energy, and several of the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas have psc or other applicable state regulatory agency mandates to promote energy efficiency. conservation programs could impact the financial results of the registrants in different ways. for example, if any traditional electric operating company or southern company gas is required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional electric operating company or southern company gas and southern company. customers could also voluntarily reduce their consumption of energy in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy prices, or individual conservation efforts. in addition, the adoption of technology by customers can have both positive and negative impacts on sales. many new technologies utilize less energy than in the past. however, electric and natural gas technologies such as electric and natural gas vehicles can create additional demand. the southern company system uses best available methods and experience to incorporate the effects of changes in customer behavior, state and federal programs, psc or other applicable state regulatory agency mandates, and technology, but the southern company system's planning processes may not estimate and incorporate these effects. all of the factors discussed above could adversely affect a registrant's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. the operating results of the registrants are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal basis. in addition, catastrophic events could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of a subsidiary registrant and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity. electric power and natural gas supply are generally seasonal businesses. in the aggregate, during normal weather conditions, the southern company system's electric power sales peak during both the summer and winter. additionally, southern power has variability in its revenues from renewable generation facilities due to seasonal weather patterns primarily from wind and sun. in most of the areas southern company gas serves, natural gas demand peaks during the winter. in addition, the subsidiary registrants have historically sold less power and natural gas when weather conditions are milder. unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, and available cash of the affected registrant. volatile or significant weather events could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional electric operating companies, the generating facilities of the traditional electric operating companies and southern power, and the natural gas distribution and storage facilities of southern company gas. the subsidiary registrants have significant investments in the atlantic and gulf coast regions and southern power and southern company gas have investments in various states which could be subject to severe weather and natural disasters, including hurricanes and wildfires. further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities. in the event a traditional electric operating company or southern company gas experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the i-25 table of contents index to financial statements approval of its state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency. historically, the traditional electric operating companies from time to time have experienced deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such deficits in the future. any denial by the applicable state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional electric operating company's or southern company gas' and on southern company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. in addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional electric operating company or southern company gas or affecting southern power's customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for energy for extended periods and may impact customers' ability to perform under existing ppas. see note 1 to the financial statements under " revenues concentration of revenue " in item 8 herein for additional information on pacific gas &amp; electric company's bankruptcy filing. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand for energy could have a material negative impact on a registrant's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. acquisitions, dispositions, or other strategic ventures or investments may not result in anticipated benefits and may present risks not originally contemplated, which may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries have made significant acquisitions and investments in the past, as well as dispositions, and may in the future make additional acquisitions, dispositions, or other strategic ventures or investments, including the pending disposition by southern company gas of its interests in pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline, which cannot be assured to be completed or beneficial to southern company or its subsidiaries. southern company and its subsidiaries continually seek opportunities to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions or sales of assets. specifically, southern power continually seeks opportunities to execute its strategy to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions, dispositions, and sales of partnership interests, development and construction of new generating facilities, and entry into ppas primarily with investor-owned utilities, ipps, municipalities, and other load-serving entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers. southern company and its subsidiaries may face significant competition for transactional opportunities and anticipated transactions may not be completed on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, these transactions are intended to, but may not, result in the generation of cash or income, the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, or the reduction of risk. these transactions may also affect the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of southern company and its subsidiaries. these transactions also involve risks, including: they may not result in an increase in income or provide adequate or expected funds or return on capital or other anticipated benefits; they may result in southern company or its subsidiaries entering into new or additional lines of business, which may have new or different business or operational risks; they may not be successfully integrated into the acquiring company's operations and/or internal control processes; the due diligence conducted prior to a transaction may not uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure or may not appropriately evaluate the likelihood or quantify the exposure from identified risks; they may result in decreased earnings, revenues, or cash flow; they may involve retained obligations in connection with transitional agreements or deferred payments related to dispositions that subject southern company or its subsidiaries to additional risk; southern company or the applicable subsidiary may not be able to achieve the expected financial benefits from the use of funds generated by any dispositions; expected benefits of a transaction may be dependent on the cooperation, performance, or credit risk of a counterparty; or for the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas, costs associated with such investments that were expected to be recovered through regulated rates may not be recoverable. southern company and southern company gas are holding companies and southern power owns many of its assets indirectly through subsidiaries. each of these companies is dependent on cash flows from their respective subsidiaries to meet their ongoing and future financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness and, for southern company, to pay dividends on its common stock. southern company and southern company gas are holding companies and, as such, they have no operations of their own. substantially all of southern company's and southern company gas' and many of southern power's respective consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. southern company's, southern company gas' and, to a certain extent, southern power's ability to meet their respective financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, and, for southern company, to pay dividends on its common stock, is dependent on the net income and cash flows of their i-26 table of contents index to financial statements respective subsidiaries and the ability of those subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay borrowed funds. prior to funding southern company, southern company gas, or southern power, the respective subsidiaries have financial obligations and, with respect to southern company and southern company gas, regulatory restrictions that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. in addition, southern company, southern company gas, and southern power may provide capital contributions or debt financing to subsidiaries under certain circumstances, which would reduce the funds available to meet their respective financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, and to pay dividends on southern company's common stock. a downgrade in the credit ratings of any of the registrants, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require posting of collateral or replacing certain indebtedness. there are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for the registrants, southern company gas capital, and nicor gas, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. the registrants, southern company gas capital, and nicor gas could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any rating agency concludes that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or the applicable company has deteriorated. changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if one or more rating agencies downgrade any registrant, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas borrowing costs likely would increase, including automatic increases in interest rates under applicable term loans and credit facilities, the pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, significant collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. any credit rating downgrades could require altering the mix of debt financing currently used, and could require the issuance of secured indebtedness and/or indebtedness with additional restrictive covenants binding the applicable company. uncertainty in demand for energy can result in lower earnings or higher costs. if demand for energy falls short of expectations, it could result in potentially stranded assets. if demand for energy exceeds expectations, it could result in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional electric generation and transmission facilities or natural gas distribution and storage facilities. southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power each engage in a long-term planning process to estimate the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. southern company gas engages in a long-term planning process to estimate the optimal mix and timing of building new pipelines and storage facilities, replacing existing pipelines, rewatering storage facilities, and entering new markets and/or expanding in existing markets. these planning processes must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation and associated transmission facilities and natural gas distribution and storage facilities. inherent risk exists in predicting demand as future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. because regulators may not permit the traditional electric operating companies or southern company gas' regulated operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation and associated transmission assets and/or new pipelines and related infrastructure in a timely manner or at all, these subsidiaries may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs and the recovery in customers' rates. in addition, under southern power's model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term ppas, southern power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. southern power and/or the traditional electric operating companies may not be able to extend existing ppas or find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing ppas expire, or they may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected registrant. the traditional electric operating companies are currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term ppas. southern power is currently obligated to supply power to wholesale customers under long-term ppas. at peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed the southern company system's available generation capacity. market or competitive forces may require that the traditional electric operating companies purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation and transmission facilities and that southern power purchase energy or capacity on the open market. because regulators may not permit the traditional electric operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional electric operating companies may not be able to recover some or all of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional electric operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. under southern power's long-term fixed price ppas, southern power may not be able to recover all of these costs. these situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected registrant. i-27 table of contents index to financial statements the businesses of the registrants, segco, and nicor gas are dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. the inability of any of the registrants, segco, or nicor gas to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that it may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. the registrants, segco, and nicor gas rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. if any of the registrants, segco, or nicor gas is not able to access capital at competitive rates or on favorable terms, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that it may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. in addition, the registrants, segco, and nicor gas rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. each of the registrants, segco, and nicor gas believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain events or market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or the ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. such disruptions could include an economic downturn or uncertainty; bankruptcy or financial distress at an unrelated energy company, financial institution, or sovereign entity; capital markets volatility and disruption, either nationally or internationally; changes in tax policy; volatility in market prices for electricity and natural gas; actual or threatened cyber or physical attacks on the southern company system's facilities or unrelated energy companies' facilities; war or threat of war; or the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries. additionally, due to a portion of the registrants' indebtedness bearing interest at fluctuating rates based on libor or other benchmark rates, the potential phasing out of these rates may adversely affect the costs of financing. the discontinuation, reform, or replacement of libor or any other benchmark rates may have an unpredictable impact on contractual relationships in the credit markets or cause disruption to the broader financial markets and could result in adverse consequences to the return on, value of, and market for the registrants' securities and other instruments whose returns are linked to any such benchmark. failure to comply with debt covenants or conditions could adversely affect the ability of the registrants, segco, southern company gas capital, or nicor gas to execute future borrowings. the debt and credit agreements of the registrants, segco, southern company gas capital, and nicor gas contain various financial and other covenants. georgia power's loan guarantee agreement with the doe contains additional covenants, events of default, and mandatory prepayment events relating to the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements, which would negatively affect the applicable company's financial condition and liquidity. volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan costs and the funding available for nuclear decommissioning. the costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefit plans are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, changes in actuarial assumptions, government regulations, and/or life expectancy, and the frequency and amount of the southern company system's required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual values, as well as a significant decline in the value of investments that fund the pension and other postretirement plans, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in plan liabilities, could increase pension and other postretirement expense, and the southern company system could be required from time to time to fund the pension plans with significant amounts of cash. such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations. see management's discussion and analysis accounting policies " application of critical accounting policies and estimates pension and other postretirement benefits" in item 7 herein and note 11 to the financial statements in item 8 herein for additional information regarding the defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. additionally, alabama power and georgia power each hold significant assets in their nuclear decommissioning trusts to satisfy obligations to decommission their nuclear plants. the rate of return on assets held in those trusts can significantly impact both the funding available for decommissioning and the funding requirements for the trusts. see note 6 to the financial statements under "nuclear decommissioning" in item 8 herein for additional information. the registrants are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable costs. the financial condition of some insurance companies, actual or threatened physical or cyber attacks, and natural disasters, among other things, could have disruptive effects on insurance markets. the availability of insurance may decrease, and the insurance that the registrants are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. further, the insurance policies may not cover all of the potential exposures or the actual amount of loss incurred. i-28 table of contents index to financial statements any losses not covered by insurance, or any increases in the cost of applicable insurance, could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of the affected registrant. the use of derivative contracts by southern company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of the registrants or in reported net income volatility. southern company and its subsidiaries use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, manage foreign currency exchange rate exposure and engage in limited trading activities. the registrants could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. the factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable further into the future. as a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. in addition, southern company gas utilizes derivative instruments to lock in economic value in wholesale gas services, which may not qualify as, or may not be designated as, hedges for accounting purposes. the difference in accounting treatment for the underlying position and the financial instrument used to hedge the value of the contract can cause volatility in reported net income of southern company and southern company gas while the positions are open due to mark-to-market accounting. see notes 13 and 14 to the financial statements in item 8 herein for additional information. future impairments of goodwill or long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on the registrants' results of operations. goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually and more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value and long-lived assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. in connection with the completion of the merger, the application of the acquisition method of accounting was pushed down to southern company gas. the excess of the purchase price over the fair values of southern company gas' assets and liabilities was recorded as goodwill. this resulted in a significant increase in the goodwill recorded on southern company's and southern company gas' consolidated balance sheets. at december 31, 2019 , goodwill was $5.3 billion and $5.0 billion for southern company and southern company gas, respectively. in addition, southern company and its subsidiaries have long-lived assets recorded on their balance sheets. to the extent the value of goodwill or long-lived assets become impaired, the affected registrant may be required to incur impairment charges that could have a material impact on their results of operations. for example, southern company gas has two natural gas storage facilities located in california and texas, which could be impacted by ongoing changes in the u.s. natural gas storage market. recent sales of natural gas storage facilities have resulted in losses for the sellers and may imply an impact on future rates and/or asset values. sustained diminished natural gas storage values could trigger impairment of either of these natural gas storage facilities. see note 3 to the financial statements under "other matters" in item 8 herein for information regarding certain impairment charges at southern company and southern company gas. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis financial condition and liquidity " market price risk " in item 7 herein and note 1 to the financial statements under " financial instruments " in item 8 herein. also see notes 13 and 14 to the financial statements in item 8 herein. ii-15 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report overview business activities southern company is a holding company that owns all of the common stock of three traditional electric operating companies, as well as the parent entities of southern power and southern company gas, and owns other direct and indirect subsidiaries. the primary businesses of the southern company system are electricity sales by the traditional electric operating companies and southern power and the distribution of natural gas by southern company gas. southern company's reportable segments are the sale of electricity by the traditional electric operating companies, the sale of electricity in the competitive wholesale market by southern power, and the sale of natural gas and other complementary products and services by southern company gas. the traditional electric operating companies alabama power, georgia power, and mississippi power are vertically integrated utilities providing electric service to retail customers in three southeastern states in addition to wholesale customers in the southeast. southern power develops, constructs, acquires, owns, and manages power generation assets, including renewable energy projects, and sells electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale market. southern power continually seeks opportunities to execute its strategy to create value through various transactions including acquisitions, dispositions, and sales of partnership interests, development and construction of new generating facilities, and entry into ppas primarily with investor-owned utilities, ipps, municipalities, electric cooperatives, and other load-serving entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers. in general, southern power commits to the construction or acquisition of new generating capacity only after entering into or assuming long-term ppas for the new facilities. southern company gas is an energy services holding company whose primary business is the distribution of natural gas. southern company gas owns natural gas distribution utilities in four states illinois, georgia, virginia, and tennessee and is also involved in several other complementary businesses. southern company gas manages its business through four reportable segments gas distribution operations, gas pipeline investments, wholesale gas services, which includes sequent, a natural gas asset optimization company, and gas marketing services, which includes southstar, a provider of energy-related products and services to natural gas markets and one non-reportable segment, all other. see notes 7 and 16 to the financial statements for additional information. many factors affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the southern company system's electric service and natural gas businesses. these factors include the ability to maintain constructive regulatory environments, to maintain and grow sales and customers, and to effectively manage and secure timely recovery of prudently-incurred costs. these costs include those related to projected long-term demand growth; stringent environmental standards, including ccr rules; safety; system reliability and resilience; fuel; natural gas; restoration following major storms; and capital expenditures, including constructing new electric generating plants and expanding and improving the electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution systems. the traditional electric operating companies and natural gas distribution utilities have various regulatory mechanisms that address cost recovery. effectively operating pursuant to these regulatory mechanisms and appropriately balancing required costs and capital expenditures with customer prices will continue to challenge the southern company system for the foreseeable future. see note 2 to the financial statements for additional information. southern power's future earnings will depend upon the parameters of the wholesale market and the efficient operation of its wholesale generating assets, as well as southern power's ability to execute its growth strategy and to develop and construct generating facilities. in addition, southern power's future earnings will depend upon the availability of federal and state itcs and ptcs on its renewable energy projects, which could be impacted by future tax legislation. see future earnings potential " acquisitions and dispositions ," " construction programs ," and " income tax matters " herein and notes 10 and 15 to the financial statements for additional information. southern company's other business activities include providing energy solutions to electric utilities and their customers in the areas of distributed generation, energy storage and renewables, and energy efficiency . other business activities also include investments in telecommunications, leveraged lease projects, and gas storage facilities. management continues to evaluate the contribution of each of these activities to total shareholder return and may pursue acquisitions, dispositions, and other strategic ventures or investments accordingly. ii-16 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report recent developments southern company on january 1, 2019, southern company completed the sale of gulf power to nextera energy for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $5.8 billion (less $1.3 billion of indebtedness assumed), including the final working capital adjustments. the gain associated with the sale of gulf power totaled $2.6 billion pre-tax ($1.4 billion after tax). alabama power on september 6, 2019, alabama power filed a petition for a ccn with the alabama psc for authorization to procure additional generating capacity through the turnkey construction of a new combined cycle facility and long-term contracts for the purchase of power from others, as well as the acquisition of an existing combined cycle facility for a total capital investment of approximately $1.1 billion . the related costs would be recovered through existing rate mechanisms. in addition, alabama power will pursue approximately 200 mws of certain demand side management and distributed energy resource programs. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters alabama power " herein for additional information. georgia power rate case on december 17, 2019, the georgia psc voted to approve the 2019 arp, including estimated rate increases totaling $342 million , $181 million , and $386 million effective january 1, 2020, january 1, 2021, and january 1, 2022, respectively. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters georgia power rate plans 2019 arp " herein for additional information. plant vogtle units 3 and 4 status in 2009, the georgia psc certified construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (with electric generating capacity of approximately 1,100 mws each). georgia power holds a 45.7% ownership interest in plant vogtle units 3 and 4. in march 2017, the epc contractor filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code. in december 2017, the georgia psc approved georgia power's recommendation to continue construction. the current expected in-service dates remain november 2021 for unit 3 and november 2022 for unit 4. in the second quarter 2018, georgia power revised its total project capital cost forecast to complete construction and start-up of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 to $8.4 billion (net of $1.7 billion received under the guarantee settlement agreement and approximately $188 million in related customer refunds), with respect to georgia power's ownership interest. as of december 31, 2019 , approximately $140 million of the $366 million construction contingency estimate established in the second quarter 2018 was allocated to the base capital cost forecast. as a result of the increase in the total project capital cost forecast and georgia power's decision not to seek rate recovery of the increase in the base capital costs, the holders of at least 90% of the ownership interests in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 were required to vote to continue construction. in september 2018, the vogtle owners unanimously voted to continue construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. following the vote to continue construction, georgia power entered into agreements to take certain actions which partially mitigate potential financial exposure for the other vogtle owners and to provide funding with respect to a meag power wholly-owned subsidiary's ownership interest in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 under certain circumstances. as part of its ongoing processes, southern nuclear continues to evaluate cost and schedule forecasts on a regular basis to incorporate current information available, particularly in the areas of commodity installation, system turnovers, and workforce statistics. in february 2020, southern nuclear updated its cost and schedule forecast, which did not change the projected overall capital cost forecast and confirmed the expected in-service dates of november 2021 for unit 3 and november 2022 for unit 4. in march 2019, georgia power entered into the amended and restated loan guarantee agreement with the doe, under which the proceeds of borrowings may be used to reimburse georgia power for eligible project costs incurred in connection with its construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, up to approximately $5.130 billion. at december 31, 2019, georgia power had a total of $3.8 billion of borrowings outstanding under the related multi-advance credit facilities. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. see future earnings potential " construction programs nuclear construction " herein and note 8 to the financial statements under " long-term debt doe loan guarantee borrowings " for additional information. ii-17 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report mississippi power in 2019, mississippi power recorded pre-tax and after-tax charges to income of $24 million related to the kemper county energy facility, which was suspended in 2017, primarily associated with the expected close out of a doe contract related to the kemper county energy facility, as well as other abandonment and related closure costs and ongoing period costs, net of salvage proceeds, for the mine and gasifier-related assets. the after-tax amount for 2019 includes an adjustment related to the tax abandonment of the kemper igcc following the filing of the 2018 tax return. in december 2019, mississippi power transferred ownership of the co 2 pipeline to an unrelated gas pipeline company, with no resulting impact on income. mine reclamation activities are expected to be substantially completed in 2020 and dismantlement of the abandoned gasifier-related assets and site restoration activities are expected to be completed in 2024. the additional pre-tax period costs associated with dismantlement and site restoration activities, including related costs for compliance and safety, aro accretion, and property taxes, are estimated to total $17 million in 2020, $15 million to $16 million annually in 2021 through 2023, and $5 million in 2024. see note 2 to the financial statements under " mississippi power kemper county energy facility " and note 3 to the financial statements for additional information, including remaining contingencies related to the kemper igcc. on november 26, 2019, mississippi power filed a base rate case (mississippi power 2019 base rate case) with the mississippi psc. the filing includes a requested annual decrease in mississippi power's retail rates of $5.8 million , or 0.6% , which is driven primarily by changes in the amortization rates of certain regulatory assets and liabilities and cost reductions, partially offset by an increase in mississippi power's requested return on investment and depreciation associated with the filing of an updated depreciation study. the revenue requirements included in the filing are based on a 53% average equity ratio and a 7.728% return on investment. on december 10, 2019, the mississippi psc suspended the base rate case filing through no later than march 25, 2020. if no further action is taken by the mississippi psc, the proposed rates may be effective beginning on march 26, 2020. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. see note 2 to the financial statements under " mississippi power 2019 base rate case " for additional information. southern power during 2019 , southern power completed construction and achieved commercial operation of the 100-mw wildhorse mountain wind facility, acquired and continued construction of the 136-mw skookumchuck wind facility, and continued construction of the 200-mw reading wind facility. in addition, southern power acquired a majority interest in dsgp, an affiliate of bloom energy, that owns and operates fuel cell generation facilities, for a total purchase price of approximately $167 million. on june 13, 2019, southern power completed the sale of its equity interests in plant nacogdoches, a 115-mw biomass facility located in nacogdoches county, texas, to austin energy, for a purchase price of approximately $461 million, including working capital adjustments. on january 17, 2020, southern power completed the sale of its equity interests in plant mankato (including the 385-mw expansion unit completed in may 2019) to a subsidiary of xcel for a purchase price of approximately $663 million, including estimated working capital adjustments. southern power calculates an investment coverage ratio for its generating assets, including those owned with various partners, based on the ratio of investment under contract to total investment using the respective generation facilities' net book value (or expected in-service value for facilities under construction) as the investment amount. with the inclusion of investments associated with the wind facilities currently under construction, as well as other capacity and energy contracts, and excluding plant mankato, which was sold on january 17, 2020, southern power's average investment coverage ratio at december 31, 2019 was 93% through 2024 and 90% through 2029, with an average remaining contract duration of approximately 14 years. see future earnings potential " acquisitions and dispositions southern power " and construction programs southern power " herein for additional information. ii-18 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report southern company gas during 2019, the natural gas distribution utilities have been involved in the following regulatory proceedings: on september 25, 2019, the virginia commission approved virginia natural gas' steps to advance virginia's energy (save) program request to amend and extend the program through 2024 with estimated capital spend totaling approximately $365 million. on october 2, 2019, the illinois commission approved a $168 million annual base rate increase for nicor gas, including $65 million related to the recovery of investments under the investing in illinois program, which became effective october 8, 2019. on december 19, 2019, the georgia psc approved a $65 million annual base rate increase for atlanta gas light, effective january 1, 2020. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters southern company gas rate proceedings " herein and note 2 to the financial statements under " southern company gas rate proceedings " for additional information. also during 2019, southern company gas recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $91 million ( $69 million after tax) related to a natural gas storage facility in louisiana. see note 3 to the financial statements under " other matters southern company gas " for additional information. on february 7, 2020, southern company gas entered into agreements with dominion modular lng holdings, inc. and dominion atlantic coast pipeline, llc for the sale of its interests in pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline, respectively, for an aggregate purchase price of $165 million , including estimated working capital and timing adjustments. southern company gas may also receive two payments of $5 million each, contingent upon certain milestones related to pivotal lng being met by dominion modular lng holdings, inc. after the completion of the sale. based on the terms of these pending transactions, southern company gas recorded an asset impairment charge, exclusive of the contingent payments, for pivotal lng of approximately $24 million ( $17 million after tax) as of december 31, 2019. the completion of each transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, among other customary closing conditions, the completion of the other transaction and, for the sale of the interest in atlantic coast pipeline, the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976. the transactions are expected to be completed in the first half of 2020; however, the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time. the assets and liabilities of pivotal lng and the interest in atlantic coast pipeline are classified as held for sale as of december 31, 2019. see notes 3, 7, and 15 to the financial statements under "southern company gas gas pipeline projects," "southern company gas equity method investments," and "southern company gas proposed sale of pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline," respectively, for additional information. see future earnings potential " acquisitions and dispositions southern company gas " herein for information regarding southern company gas' 2018 disposition activity. key performance indicators in striving to achieve attractive risk-adjusted returns while providing cost-effective energy to more than eight million electric and gas utility customers collectively, the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas continue to focus on several key performance indicators. these indicators include, but are not limited to, customer satisfaction, plant availability, electric and natural gas system reliability, and execution of major construction projects. in addition, southern company and the subsidiary registrants focus on earnings per share (eps) and net income, respectively, as a key performance indicator. see results of operations herein for information on the registrants' financial performance. see results of operations " southern company gas operating metrics " for additional information on southern company gas' operating metrics, including heating degree days, customer count, and volumes of natural gas sold. the financial success of the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas is directly tied to customer satisfaction. key elements of ensuring customer satisfaction include outstanding service, high reliability, and competitive prices. the traditional electric operating companies use customer satisfaction surveys to evaluate their results and generally target the top quartile of these surveys in measuring performance. reliability indicators are also used to evaluate results. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters alabama power rate rse " and " mississippi power performance evaluation plan " herein for additional information on alabama power's rate rse and mississippi power's pep rate plan, respectively, both of which contain mechanisms that directly tie customer service indicators to the allowed equity return. southern power continues to focus on several key performance indicators, including, but not limited to, the equivalent forced outage rate and contract availability to evaluate operating results and help ensure its ability to meet its contractual commitments to customers. ii-19 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report results of operations southern company consolidated net income attributable to southern company was $4.7 billion in 2019 , an increase of $2.5 billion , or 112.9% , from the prior year. the increase was primarily due to the $2.6 billion ($1.4 billion after tax) gain on the sale of gulf power in 2019 and a $1.1 billion ($0.8 billion after tax) charge in the second quarter 2018 for an estimated probable loss related to georgia power's construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. see " electricity business estimated loss on plants under construction " herein and notes 2 and 15 to the financial statements under " georgia power nuclear construction " and " southern company ," respectively, for additional information. basic eps was $4.53 in 2019 and $2.18 in 2018 . diluted eps, which factors in additional shares related to stock-based compensation, was $4.50 in 2019 and $2.17 in 2018 . eps for 2019 and 2018 was negatively impacted by $0.11 and $0.04 per share, respectively, as a result of increases in the average shares outstanding. see note 8 to the financial statements under " outstanding classes of capital stock southern company" for additional information. southern company has paid dividends on its common stock since 1948. dividends paid per share of common stock were $2.46 in 2019 and $2.38 in 2018 . in january 2020 , southern company declared a quarterly dividend of 62 cents per share. for 2019 , the dividend payout ratio was 54% compared to 109% for 2018 . the decrease was due to the increase in earnings in 2019. discussion of southern company's results of operations is divided into three parts the southern company system's primary business of electricity sales, its gas business, and its other business activities. 2019 2018 (in millions) electricity business $ 3,268 $ 2,304 gas business 585 372 other business activities 886 (450 ) net income $ 4,739 $ 2,226 electricity business southern company's electric utilities generate and sell electricity to retail and wholesale customers. the results of operations discussed below include the results of gulf power through december 31, 2018. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company " for additional information. ii-20 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report a condensed statement of income for the electricity business follows: 2019 increase (decrease) from 2018 (in millions) electric operating revenues $ 17,095 $ (1,476 ) fuel 3,622 (1,015 ) purchased power 816 (155 ) cost of other sales 76 10 other operations and maintenance 4,479 (156 ) depreciation and amortization 2,472 (93 ) taxes other than income taxes 1,011 (87 ) estimated loss on plants under construction 24 (1,073 ) impairment charges 3 (153 ) (gain) loss on dispositions, net (21 ) (21 ) total electric operating expenses 12,482 (2,743 ) operating income 4,613 1,267 allowance for equity funds used during construction 121 (10 ) interest expense, net of amounts capitalized 987 (48 ) other income (expense), net 234 90 income taxes 708 501 net income 3,273 894 less: dividends on preferred and preference stock of subsidiaries 15 (1 ) net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (10 ) (69 ) net income attributable to southern company $ 3,268 $ 964 electric operating revenues electric operating revenues for 2019 were $17.1 billion , reflecting a $1.5 billion decrease from 2018 . details of electric operating revenues were as follows: 2019 2018 (in millions) retail electric prior year $ 15,222 estimated change resulting from rates and pricing 581 sales decline (143 ) weather 29 fuel and other cost recovery (392 ) gulf power disposition (1,213 ) retail electric current year 14,084 $ 15,222 wholesale electric revenues 2,152 2,516 other electric revenues 636 664 other revenues 223 169 electric operating revenues $ 17,095 $ 18,571 percent change (7.9 )% 0.2 % ii-21 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report retail electric revenues decrease d $1.1 billion , or 7.5% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year. the significant factors driving this change are shown in the preceding table. the increase in rates and pricing in 2019 was primarily due to the impacts of alabama power's customer bill credits issued in 2018 related to the tax reform legislation, additional capital investments recovered through rate cnp compliance, and lower rate rse customer refund in 2019 as compared to the prior year; georgia power's higher contributions from commercial and industrial customers with variable demand-driven pricing, nccr rate increase effective january 1, 2019, and pricing effects associated with a milder winter in 2019 compared to 2018; and mississippi power's pep and eco plan rate increases effective for the first billing cycle of september 2018. electric rates for the traditional electric operating companies include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel costs, including the energy component of purchased power costs. under these provisions, fuel revenues generally equal fuel expenses, including the energy component of ppa costs, and do not affect net income. the traditional electric operating companies each have one or more regulatory mechanisms to recover other costs such as environmental and other compliance costs, storm damage, new plants, and ppa capacity costs. see note 2 to the financial statements under " alabama power ," " georgia power ," and " mississippi power " for additional information. also see "energy sales" below for a discussion of changes in the volume of energy sold, including changes related to sales growth (decline) and weather. wholesale electric revenues consist of ppas and short-term opportunity sales. wholesale electric revenues from ppas (other than solar and wind ppas) have both capacity and energy components. capacity revenues generally represent the greatest contribution to net income and are designed to provide recovery of fixed costs plus a return on investment. energy revenues will vary depending on fuel prices, the market prices of wholesale energy compared to the southern company system's generation, demand for energy within the southern company system's electric service territory, and the availability of the southern company system's generation. increases and decreases in energy revenues that are driven by fuel prices are accompanied by an increase or decrease in fuel costs and do not have a significant impact on net income. energy sales from solar and wind ppas do not have a capacity charge and customers either purchase the energy output of a dedicated renewable facility through an energy charge or through a fixed price related to the energy. as a result, the ability to recover fixed and variable operations and maintenance expenses is dependent upon the level of energy generated from these facilities, which can be impacted by weather conditions, equipment performance, transmission constraints, and other factors. wholesale electric revenues at mississippi power include ferc-regulated mra sales as well as market-based sales. short-term opportunity sales are made at market-based rates that generally provide a margin above the southern company system's variable cost to produce the energy. wholesale electric revenues from power sales were as follows: 2019 2018 (in millions) capacity and other $ 529 $ 620 energy 1,623 1,896 total $ 2,152 $ 2,516 in 2019 , wholesale revenues decrease d $364 million , or 14.5% , as compared to the prior year due to decreases of $273 million in energy revenues and $91 million in capacity revenues. excluding the $28 million decrease associated with the sale of gulf power, energy revenues decreased $165 million at southern power and $80 million at the traditional electric operating companies. the decrease at southern power related to a $113 million decrease primarily in non-ppa short-term sales and a decrease in the market price of energy, as well as a $51 million decrease primarily in sales under ppas from natural gas facilities. the decrease at the traditional electric operating companies was primarily due to lower natural gas prices. excluding the $26 million decrease associated with the sale of gulf power, the decrease in capacity revenues was primarily related to the sales of southern power's plant oleander and plant stanton unit a (together, the florida plants) in december 2018 and southern power's plant nacogdoches in june 2019. see note 15 to the financial statements for additional information. other electric revenues other electric revenues decrease d $28 million , or 4.2% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year. the decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $66 million related to the sale of gulf power, partially offset by increases at georgia power of $13 million in regulated power delivery construction and maintenance contracts and $11 million from outdoor lighting led conversions and sales, as well as an increase at alabama power of $9 million from pole attachment agreements. ii-22 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report energy sales changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in the volume of energy sold from year to year. kwh sales for 2019 and the percent change from the prior year were as follows: 2019 adjusted (b) total kwhs total kwh percent change weather-adjusted percent change (a) total kwh percent change weather-adjusted percent change (a) (in billions) residential 48.5 (11.1 )% (10.7 )% (1.1 )% (0.8 )% commercial 49.1 (8.1 ) (8.6 ) (1.1 ) (1.6 ) industrial 50.1 (6.1 ) (6.1 ) (2.9 ) (2.9 ) other 0.8 (9.1 ) (9.0 ) (5.8 ) (5.7 ) total retail 148.5 (8.5 ) (8.4 )% (1.7 ) (1.8 )% wholesale 48.0 (3.9 ) (2.6 ) total energy sales 196.5 (7.4 )% (1.9 )% (a) weather-adjusted kwh sales are estimated by removing from kwh sales the effect of deviations from normal temperature conditions, based on statistical models of the historical relationship between temperatures and energy sales. normal temperature conditions are defined as those experienced in the applicable service territory over a specified historical period. this metric is useful because it allows trends in historical operations to be evaluated apart from the influence of weather conditions. management also considers this metric in developing long-term capital and financial plans. (b) kilowatt-hour sales comparisons to the prior year were significantly impacted by the disposition of gulf power on january 1, 2019. these changes exclude gulf power. changes in retail energy sales are generally the result of changes in electricity usage by customers, changes in weather, and changes in the number of customers. excluding the impact of the gulf power disposition on january 1, 2019, weather-adjusted retail energy sales decrease d 2.7 billion kwhs in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily due to lower customer usage. weather-adjusted residential usage decreases are primarily attributable to an increase in energy-efficient residential appliances and energy saving initiatives, partially offset by customer growth. weather-adjusted commercial usage decreases are primarily attributable to an increase in energy saving initiatives and an ongoing migration to the electronic commerce business model. industrial usage decreases are a result of changes in production levels primarily in the primary metals, paper, chemicals, and textiles sectors. see " electric operating revenues " above for a discussion of significant changes in wholesale revenues related to changes in price and kwh sales. other revenues other revenues increase d $54 million , or 32.0% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year. the increase was primarily due to increases at georgia power of $20 million from unregulated sales associated with new energy conservation projects and $14 million from unregulated power delivery construction and maintenance contracts, as well as an increase at alabama power of $11 million in unregulated sales of products and services. fuel and purchased power expenses the mix of fuel sources for the generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and the availability of generating units. additionally, the electric utilities purchase a portion of their electricity needs from the wholesale market. ii-23 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report details of the southern company system's generation and purchased power were as follows: 2019 2018 (a) total generation (in billions of kwhs) 187 191 total purchased power (in billions of kwhs) 18 14 sources of generation (percent) gas 52 48 coal 22 27 nuclear 16 16 hydro 3 3 other 7 6 cost of fuel, generated (in cents per net kwh) gas 2.36 2.76 coal 2.87 2.93 nuclear 0.79 0.80 average cost of fuel, generated (in cents per net kwh) 2.20 2.46 average cost of purchased power (in cents per net kwh) (b ) 5.01 5.94 (a) excludes gulf power, which was sold on january 1, 2019. (b) average cost of purchased power includes fuel purchased by the southern company system for tolling agreements where power is generated by the provider. in 2019 , total fuel and purchased power expenses were $4.4 billion , a decrease of $1.2 billion , or 20.9% , as compared to the prior year. excluding approximately $511 million associated with the sale of gulf power, the decrease was primarily the result of a $575 million decrease in the average cost of fuel and purchased power and an $84 million net decrease in the volume of kwhs generated and purchased. fuel and purchased power energy transactions at the traditional electric operating companies are generally offset by fuel revenues and do not have a significant impact on net income. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters " herein for additional information. fuel expenses incurred under southern power's ppas are generally the responsibility of the counterparties and do not significantly impact net income. fuel in 2019 , fuel expense was $3.6 billion , a decrease of $1.0 billion , or 21.9% , as compared to the prior year. excluding approximately $309 million related to gulf power in 2018, the decrease was primarily due to an 18.1% decrease in the volume of kwhs generated by coal, a 14.5% decrease in the average cost of natural gas per kwh generated, and a 2.1% decrease in the average cost of coal per kwh generated, partially offset by a 5.0% increase in the volume of kwhs generated by natural gas. purchased power in 2019 , purchased power expense was $816 million , a decrease of $155 million , or 16.0% , as compared to the prior year. excluding approximately $202 million associated with the sale of gulf power, the change was primarily due to a 9.6% increase in the volume of kwhs purchased, partially offset by a 15.7% decrease in the average cost of kwh purchased. energy purchases will vary depending on demand for energy within the southern company system's electric service territory, the market prices of wholesale energy as compared to the cost of the southern company system's generation, and the availability of the southern company system's generation. other operations and maintenance expenses other operations and maintenance expenses decrease d $156 million , or 3.4% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year. the decrease reflects approximately $356 million related to gulf power in 2018 and $17 million related to the dispositions of southern power's florida plants and plant nacogdoches, partially offset by additional accruals of $123 million to the ndr at alabama power, $21 million of increased transmission and distribution expenses primarily due to overhead line maintenance and vegetation management at the traditional electric operating companies, $18 million from costs associated with unregulated sales at georgia power primarily associated with new energy conservation projects and power delivery construction and maintenance contracts, and $16 million related to an adjustment for ferc fees at georgia power following the conclusion of a multi-year audit of ii-24 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report headwater benefits associated with hydro facilities. see notes 2 and 15 to the financial statements under " alabama power rate ndr" and " southern power sales of natural gas and biomass plants ," respectively, for additional information. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization decrease d $93 million , or 3.6% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year. the decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $191 million related to gulf power in 2018, partially offset by an increase in depreciation of $62 million primarily resulting from additional plant in service and an increase in the amortization of regulatory assets of $47 million primarily at mississippi power and georgia power. see note 2 to the financial statements under " southern company regulatory assets and liabilities " and note 5 to the financial statements under " depreciation and amortization " for additional information. taxes other than income taxes taxes other than income taxes decrease d $87 million , or 7.9% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily due to a decrease of $118 million related to the sale of gulf power, partially offset by higher property taxes of $30 million primarily at georgia power. estimated loss on plants under construction the $1.1 billion charge in 2018 reflects georgia power's revised estimate to complete construction and start-up of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. the 2019 charges of $24 million were associated with abandonment and closure activities for the mine and gasifier-related assets of the kemper igcc at mississippi power, net of sales proceeds. see note 2 to the financial statements under " georgia power nuclear construction " and " mississippi power kemper county energy facility " for additional information. impairment charges in the second quarter 2018, southern power recorded a $119 million asset impairment charge related to the sale of the florida plants and in the third quarter 2018 recorded a $36 million asset impairment charge on wind turbine equipment held for development projects. asset impairment charges recorded in 2019 were immaterial. see note 15 to the financial statements under "southern power sales of natural gas and biomass plants " and " development projects " for additional information. (gain) loss on dispositions, net gain on dispositions, net increase d $21 million in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily due to southern power's sale of plant nacogdoches in the second quarter 2019. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern power sales of natural gas and biomass plants " for additional information. interest expense, net of amounts capitalized interest expense, net of amounts capitalized decrease d $48 million , or 4.6% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily related to the sale of gulf power. other income (expense), net other income (expense), net increase d $90 million , or 62.5% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily due to a $36 million gain arising from the roserock solar facility litigation settlement at southern power in 2019, $37 million from decreased charitable donations in 2019 at the traditional electric operating companies, $23 million of increased non-service cost-related retirement benefits income, and $16 million of increased interest income primarily associated with a new tolling arrangement accounted for as a sales-type lease at mississippi power as well as temporary cash investments, primarily at alabama power. these increases were partially offset by $24 million related to the settlement of mississippi power's deepwater horizon claim in 2018 and a $14 million gain from a joint-development wind project at southern power in 2018 attributable to its partner in the project. see note 3 to the financial statements under " general litigation matters southern power " and "other matters mississippi power" and note 11 to the financial statements under " pension plans " for additional information. income taxes income taxes increase d $501 million , or 242.0% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year. excluding an income tax benefit of approximately $20 million related to gulf power in 2018, income taxes increased $481 million. the increase was primarily due to increases in pre-tax earnings, including the $1.1 billion charge in 2018 associated with plant vogtle units 3 and 4 construction at georgia power. see notes 10 and 15 to the financial statements for additional information. ii-25 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report net income attributable to noncontrolling interests substantially all noncontrolling interests relate to renewable projects at southern power. net income attributable to noncontrolling interests decrease d $69 million , or 116.9% , in 2019 , as compared to the prior year. the decrease was primarily due to $92 million of losses attributable to noncontrolling interests related to the tax equity partnerships entered into in 2018 and $14 million attributable to a joint-development wind project in 2018, partially offset by an allocation of approximately $29 million of income to the noncontrolling interest partner related to the roserock solar facility litigation settlement. see note 3 to the financial statements under " general litigation matters southern power " and note 7 to the financial statements under " southern power " for additional information regarding the litigation settlement and tax equity partnerships, respectively. gas business southern company gas distributes natural gas through utilities in four states and is involved in several other complementary businesses including gas pipeline investments, wholesale gas services, and gas marketing services. a condensed statement of income for the gas business follows: 2019 increase (decrease) from 2018 (in millions) operating revenues $ 3,792 $ (117 ) cost of natural gas 1,319 (220 ) cost of other sales (12 ) other operations and maintenance 888 (93 ) depreciation and amortization 487 (13 ) taxes other than income taxes 213 2 impairment charges 115 73 (gain) loss on dispositions, net 291 total operating expenses 3,022 28 operating income 770 (145 ) earnings from equity method investments 157 9 interest expense, net of amounts capitalized 232 4 other income (expense), net 20 19 income taxes 130 (334 ) net income $ 585 $ 213 the southern company gas dispositions were completed by july 29, 2018 and represent the primary variance driver for 2019 compared to 2018. detailed variance explanations are provided herein. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company gas " for additional information on the southern company gas dispositions. seasonality of results during the period from november through march when natural gas usage and operating revenues are generally higher (heating season), more customers are connected to southern company gas' distribution systems and natural gas usage is higher in periods of colder weather. occasionally in the summer, operating revenues are impacted due to peak usage by power generators in response to summer energy demands. southern company gas' base operating expenses, excluding cost of natural gas, bad debt expense, and certain incentive compensation costs, are incurred relatively equally over any given year. thus, operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonality. for 2019 , the percentage of operating revenues and net income generated during the heating season (january through march and november through december) were 68.7% and 86.8% , respectively. for 2018 , the percentage of operating revenues and net income generated during the heating season were 68.7% and 96.0% , respectively. ii-26 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report operating revenues operating revenues in 2019 were $3.8 billion , a $117 million decrease compared to 2018 . details of operating revenues were as follows: 2019 (in millions) operating revenues prior year $ 3,909 estimated change resulting from infrastructure replacement programs and base rate changes 96 gas costs and other cost recovery (89 ) wholesale gas services 150 southern company gas dispositions (*) (300 ) other 26 operating revenues current year $ 3,792 percent change (3.0 )% (*) includes a $245 million decrease related to natural gas revenues, including alternative revenue programs, and a $55 million decrease related to other revenues. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company gas " for additional information. revenues from infrastructure replacement programs and base rate changes increased in 2019 compared to the prior year primarily due to increases of $74 million at nicor gas and $16 million at atlanta gas light. these amounts include the natural gas distribution utilities' continued investments recovered through infrastructure replacement programs and base rate increases as well as customer refunds in 2018 as a result of the tax reform legislation. see note 2 to the financial statements under " southern company gas " for additional information. revenues attributable to gas costs and other cost recovery decreased in 2019 compared to the prior year primarily due to lower natural gas prices and decreased volumes of natural gas sold. natural gas distribution rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in natural gas costs. therefore, gas costs recovered through natural gas revenues generally equal the amount expensed in cost of natural gas and do not affect net income from the natural gas distribution utilities. revenues from wholesale gas services increased in 2019 primarily due to derivative gains, partially offset by decreased commercial activity. other natural gas revenues increased in 2019 primarily due to increases in customers at the natural gas distribution utilities and recovery of prior period hedge losses at gas marketing services. cost of natural gas excluding atlanta gas light, which does not sell natural gas to end-use customers, the natural gas distribution utilities charge their utility customers for natural gas consumed using natural gas cost recovery mechanisms set by the applicable state regulatory agencies. under these mechanisms, all prudently-incurred natural gas costs are passed through to customers without markup, subject to regulatory review. the natural gas distribution utilities defer or accrue the difference between the actual cost of natural gas and the amount of commodity revenue earned in a given period. the deferred or accrued amount is either billed or refunded to customers prospectively through adjustments to the commodity rate. deferred natural gas costs are reflected as regulatory assets and accrued natural gas costs are reflected as regulatory liabilities. therefore, gas costs recovered through natural gas revenues generally equal the amount expensed in cost of natural gas and do not affect net income from the natural gas distribution utilities. cost of natural gas at the natural gas distribution utilities represented 84.5% of the total cost of natural gas for 2019 . gas marketing services customers are charged for actual and estimated natural gas consumed. cost of natural gas includes the cost of fuel and associated transportation costs, lost and unaccounted for gas, adjustments to reduce the value of inventories to market value, if applicable, and gains and losses associated with certain derivatives. in 2019 , cost of natural gas was $1.3 billion , a decrease of $220 million , or 14.3% , compared to the prior year. excluding a $106 million decrease related to the southern company gas dispositions, cost of natural gas decreased by $114 million, which reflects a 14.8% decrease in natural gas prices compared to 2018. ii-27 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report cost of other sales cost of other sales related to pivotal home solutions, which was sold on june 4, 2018. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company gas sale of pivotal home solutions " for additional information. other operations and maintenance expenses other operations and maintenance expenses decrease d $93 million , or 9.5% , in 2019 compared to the prior year. excluding a $65 million decrease related to the southern company gas dispositions, other operations and maintenance expenses decreased $28 million. this decrease was primarily due to $28 million of disposition-related costs incurred during 2018, a $12 million adjustment in 2018 for the adoption of a new paid time off policy, an $11 million expense for a litigation settlement to facilitate the sale of pivotal home solutions in 2018, and a $7 million decrease in compensation and benefits costs, partially offset by a $22 million increase in rider expenses, primarily at nicor gas, passed through directly to customers. see future earnings potential " southern company gas utility regulation and rate design " herein for additional information. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization decrease d $13 million , or 2.6% , in 2019 compared to the prior year. excluding a $27 million decrease related to the southern company gas dispositions, depreciation and amortization increased $14 million. this increase was primarily due to continued infrastructure investments at the natural gas distribution utilities, partially offset by accelerated depreciation related to assets retired in 2018. see note 2 to the financial statements under " southern company gas infrastructure replacement programs and capital projects " for additional information. impairment charges in 2019 , southern company gas recorded impairment charges of $91 million related to a natural gas storage facility in louisiana and $24 million in contemplation of the sale of its interests in pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline. in 2018 , a goodwill impairment charge of $42 million was r ecorded in contemplation of the sale of pivotal home solutions. see notes 1 , 3 , and 15 to the financial statements under " goodwill and other intangible assets and liabilities ," " other matters southern company gas ," and " southern company gas ," respectively, for additional information. (gain) loss on dispositions, net gain on dispositions, net was $291 million in 2018 and was associated with the southern company gas dispositions. the income tax expense on these gains included income tax expense on goodwill not deductible for tax purposes and for which a deferred tax liability had not been recorded previously. earnings from equity method investments earnings from equity method investments increase d $9 million , or 6.1% , in 2019 compared to the prior year and reflect higher earnings from sng as a result of rate increases that became effective september 2018, partially offset by a $6 million pre-tax loss on the sale of triton in may 2019. see note 7 to the financial statements under " southern company gas " for additional information. other income (expense), net other income (expense), net increase d $19 million in 2019 compared to the prior year. this increase primarily resulted from a $23 million decrease in charitable donations in 2019. income taxes income taxes decrease d $334 million , or 72.0% , in 2019 compared to the prior year. this decrease primarily reflects a reduction of $348 million related to the southern company gas dispositions, as well as $29 million in benefits associated with impairment charges in 2019 and additional benefits from the flowback of excess deferred income taxes in 2019 primarily at atlanta gas light as previously authorized by the georgia psc, partially offset by $48 million of additional taxes associated with increased pre-tax earnings at wholesale gas services. see future earnings potential " income tax matters " herein and note 10 to the financial statements for additional information. also see notes 2 , 3 , and 15 to the financial statements under "southern company gas," " other matters southern company gas ," and " southern company gas proposed sale of pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline ," respectively, for additional information on atlanta gas light's regulatory treatment of the impacts of the tax reform legislation and the impairment charges. ii-28 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report other business activities southern company's other business activities primarily include the parent company (which does not allocate operating expenses to business units); powersecure, a provider of energy solutions to electric utilities and their customers in the areas of distributed generation, energy storage and renewables, and energy efficiency ; southern holdings, which invests in various projects, including leveraged lease projects; and southern linc, which provides digital wireless communications for use by the southern company system and also markets these services to the public and provides fiber optics services within the southeast. a condensed statement of income for southern company's other business activities follows: 2019 increase (decrease) from 2018 (in millions) operating revenues $ 532 $ (483 ) cost of other sales 359 (369 ) other operations and maintenance 233 (40 ) depreciation and amortization 79 13 taxes other than income taxes 6 impairment charges 50 38 (gain) loss on dispositions, net (2,548 ) (2,548 ) total operating expenses (1,821 ) (2,906 ) operating income (loss) 2,353 2,423 interest expense 517 (62 ) other income (expense), net 10 33 income taxes (benefit) 960 1,182 net income (loss) $ 886 $ 1,336 operating revenues southern company's operating revenues for these other business activities decrease d $483 million , or 47.6% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily related to powersecure's 2018 storm restoration services in puerto rico and the sale of powersecure's utility infrastructure services business in june 2019. cost of other sales cost of other sales for these other business activities decrease d $369 million , or 50.7% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily related to powersecure's 2018 storm restoration services in puerto rico and the sale of powersecure's utility infrastructure services business in june 2019. other operations and maintenance expenses other operations and maintenance expenses for these other business activities decrease d $40 million , or 14.7% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year. the decrease was primarily due to powersecure's lower employee compensation and benefits in 2019 and 2018 storm restoration services in puerto rico. impairment charges in 2019, goodwill and asset impairment charges totaling $50 million were recorded related to the sale of powersecure's utility infrastructure services and lighting businesses. in 2018, asset impairment charges of $12 million associated with southern linc's tower leases were recorded in contemplation of the sale of gulf power. (gain) loss on dispositions, net the 2019 gain on dispositions, net primarily relates to the gain of $2.6 billion ($1.4 billion after tax) on the sale of gulf power. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company " for additional information. ii-29 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report interest expense interest expense for these other business activities decrease d $62 million , or 10.7% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily due to a decrease in average outstanding long-term debt at the parent company. see note 8 to the financial statements for additional information. other income (expense), net other income (expense), net for these other business activities increase d $33 million in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily due to a $43 million decrease in charitable donations at the parent company, partially offset by a $17 million impairment charge associated with a leveraged lease at southern holdings in 2019. see notes 1 and 3 to the financial statements under " leveraged leases " and " other matters southern company ," respectively, for additional information. income taxes (benefit) the income tax for these other business activities increase d $1.2 billion in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily due to the tax impacts related to the sale of gulf power. see note 10 to the financial statements and note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company " for additional information. alabama power alabama power's 2019 net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock was $1.07 billion , representing a $140 million , or 15.1% , increase over the previous year. the increase was primarily due to an increase in retail revenues associated with the impacts of customer bill credits issued in 2018 related to the tax reform legislation and a lower rate rse customer refund in 2019 as compared to the prior year, as well as additional capital investments recovered through rate cnp compliance. the increase in revenue is partially offset by increases in operations and maintenance and depreciation expenses and lower customer usage. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters alabama power rate rse " and " rate cnp compliance" herein for additional information. a condensed income statement for alabama power follows: 2019 increase (decrease) from 2018 (in millions) operating revenues $ 6,125 $ 93 fuel 1,112 (189 ) purchased power 403 (29 ) other operations and maintenance 1,821 152 depreciation and amortization 793 29 taxes other than income taxes 403 14 total operating expenses 4,532 (23 ) operating income 1,593 116 allowance for equity funds used during construction 52 (10 ) interest expense, net of amounts capitalized 336 13 other income (expense), net 46 26 income taxes 270 (21 ) net income 1,085 140 dividends on preferred and preference stock 15 net income after dividends on preferred and preference stock $ 1,070 $ 140 ii-30 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report operating revenues operating revenues for 2019 were $6.1 billion , reflecting a $0.1 billion increase from 2018 . details of operating revenues were as follows: 2019 2018 (in millions) retail prior year $ 5,367 estimated change resulting from rates and pricing 347 sales decline (79 ) weather (3 ) fuel and other cost recovery (131 ) retail current year 5,501 $ 5,367 wholesale revenues non-affiliates 258 279 affiliates 81 119 total wholesale revenues 339 398 other operating revenues 285 267 total operating revenues $ 6,125 $ 6,032 percent change 1.5 % (0.1 )% retail revenues in 2019 were $5.5 billion . these revenues increased $ 134 million , or 2.5% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year. the increase in 2019 was primarily due to increases in rates and pricing associated with the impact of customer bill credits issued in 2018 related to the tax reform legislation and additional capital investments recovered through rate cnp compliance, as well as a lower rate rse customer refund in 2019 as compared to the prior year, partially offset by decreases in fuel revenues and customer usage, as well as milder weather in 2019 as compared to 2018. see note 2 to the financial statements under " alabama power rate rse " and " rate cnp compliance" for additional information. see " energy sales " herein for a discussion of changes in the volume of energy sold, including changes related to sales decline and weather. electric rates include provisions to recognize the recovery of fuel costs, purchased power costs, ppas certificated by the alabama psc, and costs associated with the natural disaster reserve. under these provisions, fuel and other cost recovery revenues generally equal fuel and other cost recovery expenses and do not affect net income. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters alabama power rate ecr " herein for additional information. wholesale revenues from power sales to non-affiliated utilities were as follows: 2019 2018 (in millions) capacity and other $ 102 $ 101 energy 156 178 total non-affiliated $ 258 $ 279 wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates will vary depending on fuel prices, the market prices of wholesale energy compared to the cost of alabama power's and the southern company system's generation, demand for energy within the southern company system's electric service territory, and availability of the southern company system's generation. increases and decreases in energy revenues that are driven by fuel prices are accompanied by an increase or decrease in fuel costs and do not affect net income. short-term opportunity energy sales are also included in wholesale energy sales to non-affiliates. these opportunity sales are made at market-based rates that generally provide a margin above alabama power's variable cost to produce the energy. ii-31 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report in 2019 , wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates decreased $21 million , or 7.5% , as compared to the prior year primarily as a result of an 8.2% decrease in energy prices due to lower natural gas prices, partially offset by a 1% increase in the amount of kwhs sold. wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated companies will vary depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at each company. these affiliate sales and purchases are made in accordance with the iic, as approved by the ferc. these transactions do not have a significant impact on earnings since this energy is generally sold at marginal cost and energy purchases are generally offset by energy revenues through alabama power's energy cost recovery clause. in 2019 , wholesale revenues from sales to affiliates decreased $38 million , or 31.9% , as compared to the prior year. in 2019 , kwh sales decreased 22.7% due to the decreased availability of coal generation associated with the retirement of plant gorgas units 8, 9, and 10, and the price of energy decreased 11.8% as a result of lower natural gas prices. in 2019 , other operating revenues increased $18 million , or 6.7% , as compared to the prior year primarily due to an increase in unregulated sales of products and services and pole attachment agreements. energy sales changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in the volume of energy sold from year to year. kwh sales for 2019 and the percent change from the prior year were as follows: 2019 total kwhs total kwh percent change weather-adjusted percent change (in billions) residential 18.3 (1.9 )% (1.5 )% commercial 13.6 (2.2 ) (2.2 ) industrial 22.1 (3.7 ) (3.7 ) other 0.2 (7.3 ) (7.3 ) total retail 54.2 (2.8 ) (2.6 )% wholesale non-affiliates 5.1 1.2 affiliates 3.5 (22.7 ) total wholesale 8.6 (10.1 ) total energy sales 62.8 (3.8 )% changes in retail energy sales are generally the result of changes in electricity usage by customers, changes in weather, and changes in the number of customers. retail energy sales in 2019 decreased 2.8% primarily due to lower customer usage and milder weather in 2019 compared to 2018. weather-adjusted residential sales were 1.5% lower in 2019 primarily due to lower customer usage resulting from an increase in penetration of energy-efficient residential appliances, partially offset by customer growth. weather-adjusted commercial sales were 2.2% lower in 2019 primarily due to lower customer usage resulting from customer initiatives in energy savings and an ongoing migration to the electronic commerce business model, partially offset by customer growth. industrial sales decreased 3.7% in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily as a result of changes in production levels in the primary metals and chemicals sectors. see " operating revenues " above for a discussion of significant changes in wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates and wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated companies related to changes in price and kwh sales. fuel and purchased power expenses the mix of fuel sources for generation of electricity is determined primarily by the unit cost of fuel consumed, demand, and the availability of generating units. additionally, alabama power purchases a portion of its electricity needs from the wholesale market. ii-32 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report details of alabama power's generation and purchased power were as follows: 2019 2018 total generation (in billions of kwhs) 56.9 60.5 total purchased power (in billions of kwhs) 9.4 8.1 sources of generation (percent) coal 45 50 nuclear 25 23 gas 21 19 hydro 9 8 cost of fuel, generated (in cents per net kwh) coal 2.69 2.73 nuclear 0.77 0.77 gas 2.47 2.84 average cost of fuel, generated (in cents per net kwh) (a)(b) 2.11 2.26 average cost of purchased power (in cents per net kwh) (c) 4.39 5.47 (a) for 2018, cost of fuel, generated and average cost of fuel, generated excludes a $30 million adjustment associated with a may 2018 alabama psc accounting order related to excess deferred income taxes. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters alabama power tax reform accounting order " herein for additional information. (b) kwhs generated by hydro are excluded from the average cost of fuel, generated. (c) average cost of purchased power includes fuel, energy, and transmission purchased by alabama power for tolling agreements where power is generated by the provider. fuel and purchased power expenses were $1.5 billion in 2019 , a decrease of $218 million , or 12.6% , compared to 2018 . the decrease was primarily due to a $102 million decrease in the average cost of purchased power, a $56 million decrease in the average cost of fuel, a $30 million net decrease related to the volume of kwhs purchased and generated, and a $30 million decrease in fuel expense associated with the may 2018 alabama psc accounting order. fuel and purchased power energy transactions do not have a significant impact on earnings, since energy expenses are generally offset by energy revenues through alabama power's energy cost recovery clause. alabama power, along with the alabama psc, continuously monitors the under/over recovered balance to determine whether adjustments to billing rates are required. see note 2 to the financial statements under " alabama power rate ecr " for additional information. fuel fuel expenses were $1.1 billion in 2019 , a decrease of $189 million , or 14.5% , compared to 2018 . the decrease was primarily due to a 13% decrease in the average cost of kwhs generated by natural gas, which excludes tolling agreements, a 14.4% decrease in the volume of kwhs generated by coal, and a 5.2% increase in the volume of kwhs generated by hydro, as well as a $30 million decrease in fuel expense associated with the may 2018 alabama psc accounting order. purchased power non-affiliates purchased power expense from non-affiliates was $203 million in 2019 , a decrease of $13 million , or 6.0% , compared to 2018 . this decrease was primarily due to a 12.6% decrease in the average cost per kwh purchased due to lower natural gas prices. the decrease was partially offset by a 9.1% increase in the amount of energy purchased as a result of decreased coal generation due to the retirement of plant gorgas units 8, 9, and 10. energy purchases from non-affiliates will vary depending on the market prices of wholesale energy as compared to the cost of the southern company system's generation, demand for energy within the southern company system's service territory, and the availability of the southern company system's generation. purchased power affiliates purchased power expense from affiliates was $200 million in 2019 , a decrease of $16 million , or 7.4% , compared to 2018 . this decrease was primarily due to a 25.2% decrease in the average cost per kwh purchased due to lower natural gas prices. the decrease was partially offset by a 24.1% increase in the amount of energy purchased primarily due to the availability of lower-cost ii-33 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report generation compared to alabama power's owned generation and a decrease in coal generation due to the retirement of plant gorgas units 8, 9, and 10. energy purchases from affiliates will vary depending on demand for energy and the availability and cost of generating resources at each company within the southern company system. these purchases are made in accordance with the iic or other contractual agreements, as approved by the ferc. other operations and maintenance expenses in 2019 , other operations and maintenance expenses increased $152 million , or 9.1% , as compared to the prior year primarily due to additional accruals of $123 million to the ndr as well as $11 million in rate cnp compliance-related expenses. see note 2 to the financial statements under " alabama power rate ndr" and " rate cnp compliance" for additional information. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization increased $29 million , or 3.8% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily due to additional plant in service. see note 5 to the financial statements under " depreciation and amortization " for additional information. other income (expense), net other income (expense), net increased $26 million , or 130.0% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily due to a decrease of $17 million in charitable donations and an increase of $9 million in interest income from temporary cash investments. income taxes income taxes decreased $21 million , or 7.2% , in 2019 as compared to the prior year primarily due to additional benefits from the flowback of excess deferred income taxes in accordance with an alabama psc accounting order, partially offset by an increase in pre-tax net income. see note 2 to the financial statements under " alabama power tax reform accounting order" for additional information. georgia power georgia power's 2019 net income was $1.7 billion , representing a $927 million , or 116.9% , increase from the previous year. the increase was primarily due to a $1.1 billion ($0.8 billion after tax) charge in the second quarter 2018 for an estimated probable loss related to georgia power's construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, an increase in retail base revenues associated with higher contributions from commercial and industrial customers with variable demand-driven pricing, and an increase in other revenues primarily related to unregulated sales. partially offsetting the increase were higher non-fuel operations and maintenance expenses and depreciation and amortization. a condensed income statement for georgia power follows: 2019 increase (decrease) from 2018 (in millions) operating revenues $ 8,408 $ (12 ) fuel 1,444 (254 ) purchased power 1,096 (57 ) other operations and maintenance 1,972 112 depreciation and amortization 981 58 taxes other than income taxes 454 17 estimated loss on plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (1,060 ) total operating expenses 5,947 (1,184 ) operating income 2,461 1,172 interest expense, net of amounts capitalized 409 12 other income (expense), net 140 25 income taxes 472 258 net income $ 1,720 $ 927 ii-34 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report operating revenues operating revenues for 2019 were $8.4 billion , a $12 million decrease from 2018 . details of operating revenues were as follows: 2019 2018 (in millions) retail prior year $ 7,752 estimated change resulting from rates and pricing 202 sales decline (66 ) weather 39 fuel cost recovery (220 ) retail current year 7,707 $ 7,752 wholesale revenues non-affiliates 129 163 affiliates 11 24 total wholesale revenues 140 187 other operating revenues 561 481 total operating revenues $ 8,408 $ 8,420 percent change (0.1 )% 1.3 % retail revenues of $7.7 billion in 2019 decreased $45 million , or 0.6% , compared to 2018 . the significant factors driving this change are shown in the preceding table. the increase in rates and pricing was primarily due to higher contributions from commercial and industrial customers with variable demand-driven pricing, an increase in the nccr tariff effective january 1, 2019, and pricing effects associated with a milder winter in 2019 compared to 2018. see note 2 to the financial statements under " georgia power nuclear construction " for additional information related to the nccr tariff. see " energy sales " below for a discussion of changes in the volume of energy sold, including changes related to the sales decline in 2019 . electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel costs, including the energy component of purchased power costs. under these fuel cost recovery provisions, fuel revenues generally equal fuel expenses and do not affect net income. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters georgia power fuel cost recovery " herein for additional information. wholesale revenues from power sales to non-affiliated utilities were as follows: 2019 2018 (in millions) capacity and other $ 55 $ 54 energy 74 109 total non-affiliated $ 129 $ 163 wholesale capacity revenues from ppas are recognized either on a levelized basis over the appropriate contract period or the amounts billable under the contract terms and provide for recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment. wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates will vary depending on fuel prices, the market prices of wholesale energy compared to the cost of georgia power's and the southern company system's generation, demand for energy within the southern company system's electric service territory, and the availability of the southern company system's generation. increases and decreases in energy revenues that are driven by fuel prices are accompanied by an increase or decrease in fuel costs and do not have a significant impact on net income. short-term opportunity sales are made at market-based rates that generally provide a margin above georgia power's variable cost of energy. wholesale revenues from non-affiliated sales decrease d $34 million , or 20.9% , in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily due to lower energy prices and lower demand. ii-35 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report wholesale revenues from sales to affiliated companies will vary depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at each company. these affiliate sales are made in accordance with the iic, as approved by the ferc. these transactions do not have a significant impact on earnings since this energy is generally sold at marginal cost. in 2019 , wholesale revenues from sales to affiliates decrease d $13 million , or 54.2% , as compared to 2018 primarily due to a 36.3% decrease in kwh sales as a result of the lower market cost of available energy compared to the cost of georgia power-owned generation. other operating revenues increase d $80 million , or 16.6% , in 2019 from the prior year primarily due to revenue increases of $27 million from power delivery construction and maintenance contracts, $20 million from unregulated sales associated with new energy conservation projects, $11 million from outdoor lighting led conversions and sales, $7 million from oatt sales, and $6 million in wholesale operating fees associated with contractual targets. energy sales changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in the volume of energy sold from year to year. kwh sales for 2019 and the percent change from the prior year were as follows: 2019 total kwhs total kwh percent change weather-adjusted percent change (in billions) residential 28.2 (0.5 )% (0.4 )% commercial 32.8 (0.4 ) (1.3 ) industrial 23.2 (2.1 ) (2.2 ) other 0.5 (5.6 ) (5.5 ) total retail 84.7 (0.9 ) (1.2 )% wholesale non-affiliates 2.7 (15.8 ) affiliates 0.3 (36.3 ) total wholesale 3.0 (18.7 ) total energy sales 87.7 (1.7 )% changes in retail energy sales are generally the result of changes in electricity usage by customers, changes in weather, and changes in the number of customers. in 2019 , weather-adjusted residential and commercial kwh sales decreased 0.4% and 1.3%, respectively, compared to 2018 primarily due to a decline in average customer usage resulting from an increase in energy saving initiatives. the decreases in weather-adjusted residential and commercial kwh sales were largely and partially, respectively, offset by customer growth. weather-adjusted industrial kwh sales decreased 2.2% primarily due to decreases in the paper, textile, stone, clay, and glass, and lumber sectors, partially offset by an increase in the pipeline sector. see " operating revenues " above for a discussion of significant changes in wholesale sales to non-affiliates and affiliated companies. fuel and purchased power expenses fuel costs constitute one of the largest expenses for georgia power. the mix of fuel sources for the generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and the availability of generating units. additionally, georgia power purchases a portion of its electricity needs from the wholesale market. ii-36 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report details of georgia power's generation and purchased power were as follows: 2019 2018 total generation (in billions of kwhs) 62.6 65.2 total purchased power (in billions of kwhs) 29.1 27.9 sources of generation (percent) gas 47 42 nuclear 26 25 coal 24 30 hydro 3 3 cost of fuel, generated (in cents per net kwh) gas 2.42 2.75 nuclear 0.81 0.82 coal 3.09 3.21 average cost of fuel, generated (in cents per net kwh) 2.16 2.40 average cost of purchased power (in cents per net kwh) ( *) 4.21 4.79 (*) average cost of purchased power includes fuel purchased by georgia power for tolling agreements where power is generated by the provider. fuel and purchased power expenses were $2.5 billion in 2019 , a decrease of $311 million , or 10.9% , compared to 2018 . the decrease was primarily due to a $289 million decrease related to the average cost of fuel and purchased power. fuel and purchased power energy transactions do not have a significant impact on earnings since these fuel expenses are generally offset by fuel revenues through georgia power's fuel cost recovery mechanism. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters georgia power fuel cost recovery " herein for additional information. fuel fuel expense was $1.4 billion in 2019 , a decrease of $254 million , or 15.0% , compared to 2018 . the decrease was primarily due to a 10% decrease in the average cost of fuel, primarily related to lower natural gas prices, and a 3.9% decrease in the volume of kwhs generated, primarily due to the lower market cost of energy compared to available georgia power resources. purchased power - non-affiliates purchased power expense from non-affiliates was $521 million in 2019 , an increase of $91 million , or 21.2% , compared to 2018 . the increase was primarily due to a 53.1% increase in the volume of kwhs purchased primarily due to the lower market cost of energy compared to available southern company system resources and warmer weather in the third quarter 2019 resulting in higher customer demand, partially offset by a 22.1% decrease in the average cost per kwh purchased primarily due to lower energy prices. the volume increase also reflects purchases from gulf power which were classified as affiliate prior to january 1, 2019. see note 15 to the financial statements for information regarding the sale of gulf power. energy purchases from non-affiliates will vary depending on the market prices of wholesale energy as compared to the cost of the southern company system's generation, demand for energy within the southern company system's electric service territory, and the availability of the southern company system's generation. purchased power - affiliates purchased power expense from affiliates was $575 million in 2019 , a decrease of $148 million , or 20.5% , compared to 2018 . the decrease was primarily due to an 11.1% decrease in the volume of kwhs purchased as georgia power units generally dispatched at a lower cost than other southern company system resources and a 13.0% decrease in the average cost per kwh purchased resulting from lower energy prices. the decrease in purchased power expense from affiliates also reflects a change in the classification of capacity expenses of $24 million related to ppas with southern power accounted for as finance leases following the adoption of fasb asc topic 842, leases (asc 842). in 2019, these expenses are included in depreciation and amortization and interest expense, net of amounts capitalized. the decrease in the volume of kwhs purchased also includes the effect of classifying purchases from gulf power as ii-37 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report non-affiliate beginning january 1, 2019. see notes 9 and 15 to the financial statements for additional information regarding asc 842 and the sale of gulf power, respectively. energy purchases from affiliates will vary depending on the demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at each company within the southern company system. these purchases are made in accordance with the iic or other contractual agreements, all as approved by the ferc. other operations and maintenance expenses in 2019 , other operations and maintenance expenses increase d $112 million , or 6.0% , compared to 2018 . the increase reflects increases in expenses of $30 million from unregulated sales primarily associated with new energy conservation projects and power delivery construction and maintenance contracts, $26 million related to scheduled generation outages, $16 million related to an adjustment for ferc fees following the conclusion of a multi-year audit of headwater benefits associated with hydro facilities, $12 million primarily due to the timing of vegetation management and other transmission-related expenses, and $10 million associated with generation maintenance. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization increase d $58 million , or 6.3% , in 2019 compared to 2018 . the increase was primarily due to a $31 million increase in depreciation associated with additional plant in service and a $19 million increase in the amortization of regulatory assets related to the retirement of certain generating units. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters georgia power integrated resource plan " herein for additional information on unit retirements. the increase also reflects the classification of approximately $9 million related to ppas with southern power accounted for as finance leases following the adoption of asc 842. in prior periods, the expenses related to these ppas were included in purchased power, affiliates. see note 9 to the financial statements for additional information regarding asc 842. see note 5 to the financial statements under " depreciation and amortization " for additional information. taxes other than income taxes in 2019 , taxes other than income taxes increase d $17 million , or 3.9% , compared to 2018 primarily due to higher property taxes of $25 million as a result of increases in the assessed value of property, partially offset by a decrease of $11 million in municipal franchise fees, largely due to adjustments associated with the georgia power tax reform settlement agreement. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters georgia power rate plans tax reform settlement agreement" herein for additional information. estimated loss on plant vogtle units 3 and 4 in the second quarter 2018, an estimated probable loss of $1.1 billion was recorded to reflect georgia power's revised estimate to complete construction and start-up of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. see accounting policies " estimated cost, schedule, and rate recovery for the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 " herein and note 2 to the financial statements under " georgia power nuclear construction " for additional information. interest expense, net of amounts capitalized in 2019 , interest expense, net of amounts capitalized increase d $12 million , or 3.0% , compared to 2018 . the increase was primarily due to the reclassification of $15 million related to ppas with southern power accounted for as finance leases following the adoption of asc 842 and a $6 million increase in interest expense associated with an increase in outstanding short-term borrowings, partially offset by a $9 million increase in amounts capitalized largely associated with plant vogtle units 3 and 4. in prior periods, the expenses related to the ppas with southern power were included in purchased power, affiliates. see financial condition and liquidity " sources of capital " and " financing activities " herein for additional information on borrowings, note 9 to the financial statements for additional information regarding asc 842, and note 2 to the financial statements under " georgia power nuclear construction " for additional information regarding plant vogtle units 3 and 4. other income (expense), net in 2019 , other income (expense), net increase d $25 million compared to the prior year primarily due to a $16 million increase in non-service cost-related retirement benefits income and a $13 million decrease in charitable donations, partially offset by a $4 million decrease in interest income from temporary cash investments. see note 11 to the financial statements for additional information on georgia power's net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit costs. ii-38 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report income taxes income taxes increase d $258 million , or 120.6% , in 2019 compared to the prior year primarily as a result of higher pre-tax earnings largely due to the 2018 charge associated with plant vogtle units 3 and 4 construction. this increase was partially offset by additional state itcs recognized in 2019 and the recognition of a valuation allowance in 2018. see note 10 to the financial statements for additional information. mississippi power mississippi power's net income after dividends on preferred stock was $139 million in 2019 compared to $235 million in 2018 . the change was primarily the result of higher income tax expense following the 2018 partial reversal of a valuation allowance. a condensed statement of operations follows: 2019 increase (decrease) from 2018 (in millions) operating revenues $ 1,264 $ (1 ) fuel 407 2 purchased power 20 (21 ) other operations and maintenance 283 (30 ) depreciation and amortization 192 23 taxes other than income taxes 113 6 estimated loss on kemper igcc 24 (13 ) total operating expenses 1,039 (33 ) operating income 225 32 allowance for equity funds used during construction 1 1 interest expense, net of amounts capitalized 69 (7 ) other income (expense), net 12 (5 ) income taxes (benefit) 30 132 net income 139 (97 ) dividends on preferred stock (1 ) net income after dividends on preferred stock $ 139 $ (96 ) ii-39 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report operating revenues operating revenues for 2019 were approximately $1.3 billion , a $1 million decrease from 2018 . details of operating revenues were as follows: 2019 2018 (in millions) retail prior year $ 889 estimated change resulting from rates and pricing 31 weather (2 ) fuel and other cost recovery (41 ) retail current year 877 $ 889 wholesale revenues non-affiliates 237 263 affiliates 132 91 total wholesale revenues 369 354 other operating revenues 18 22 total operating revenues $ 1,264 $ 1,265 percent change (0.1 )% 6.6 % total retail revenues for 2019 decreased $12 million , or 1.3% , compared to 2018 primarily due to a fuel rate decrease that became effective for the first billing cycle of february 2019. this decrease was largely offset by an increase in rates and pricing, primarily related to pep and eco plan rate changes that became effective for the first billing cycle of september 2018, net of a new tolling arrangement accounted for as a sales-type lease effective january 2019. see note 2 to the financial statements under " mississippi power environmental compliance overview plan " and " performance evaluation plan " and note 9 to the financial statements under "lessor" for additional information. see " energy sales " below for a discussion of changes in the volume of energy sold, including changes related to sales and weather. electric rates for mississippi power include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel costs, including the energy component of purchased power costs. under these provisions, fuel revenues generally equal fuel expenses, including the energy component of purchased power costs, and do not affect net income. recoverable fuel costs include fuel and purchased power expenses reduced by the fuel and emissions portion of wholesale revenues from energy sold to customers outside mississippi power's service territory. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters mississippi power fuel cost recovery " herein for additional information. wholesale revenues from power sales to non-affiliated utilities, including ferc-regulated mra sales as well as market-based sales, were as follows: 2019 2018 (in millions) capacity and other $ 3 $ 6 energy 234 257 total non-affiliated $ 237 $ 263 wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates will vary depending on fuel prices, the market prices of wholesale energy compared to the cost of mississippi power's and the southern company system's generation, demand for energy within the southern company system's electric service territory, and the availability of the southern company system's generation. increases and decreases in energy revenues that are driven by fuel prices are accompanied by an increase or decrease in fuel costs and do not have a significant impact on net income. in addition, mississippi power provides service under long-term contracts with rural electric cooperative associations and municipalities located in southeastern mississippi under cost-based electric tariffs which are subject to regulation by the ferc. the contracts with these wholesale customers represented 15.7% of mississippi power's total ii-40 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report operating revenues in 2019 and are generally subject to 10-year rolling cancellation notices. historically, these wholesale customers have acted as a group and any changes in contractual relationships for one customer are likely to be followed by the other wholesale customers. short-term opportunity energy sales are also included in sales for resale to non-affiliates. these opportunity sales are made at market-based rates that generally provide a margin above mississippi power's variable cost to produce the energy. wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliates decreased $26 million , or 9.9% , compared to 2018 . this decrease primarily reflects decreases of $14 million from lower fuel prices, $6 million from decreased customer usage, and $8 million from lower ppa capacity and energy sales. wholesale revenues from sales to affiliates will vary depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at each company. these affiliate sales are made in accordance with the iic, as approved by the ferc. these transactions do not have a significant impact on earnings since this energy is generally sold at marginal cost. wholesale revenues from sales to affiliates increased $41 million , or 45.1% , in 2019 compared to 2018 . this increase was primarily due to a $76 million increase associated with higher kwh sales due to the dispatch of mississippi power's lower cost generation resources to serve the southern company system's territorial load, partially offset by a $35 million decrease associated with lower natural gas prices. energy sales changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the change in the volume of energy sold from year to year. kwh sales for 2019 and the percent change from the prior year were as follows: 2019 total kwhs total kwh percent change weather-adjusted percent change (in millions) residential 2,062 (2.4 )% (0.8 )% commercial 2,715 (2.9 ) (2.7 ) industrial 4,795 (2.6 ) (2.6 ) other 36 (1.9 ) (1.9 ) total retail 9,608 (2.7 ) (2.2 )% wholesale non-affiliated 3,966 (0.3 ) affiliated 4,758 84.1 total wholesale 8,724 32.9 total energy sales 18,332 11.5 % changes in retail energy sales are generally the result of changes in electricity usage by customers, changes in weather, and changes in the number of customers. retail energy sales decreased 2.7% in 2019 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to decreased demand by several large industrial customers. weather-adjusted residential and commercial kwh sales decreased 0.8% and 2.7%, respectively, in 2019 primarily due to decreased customer usage as a result of an increase in energy saving initiatives, slightly offset by customer growth. see " operating revenues " above for a discussion of significant changes in wholesale revenues to affiliated companies. fuel and purchased power expenses the mix of fuel sources for generation of electricity is determined primarily by demand, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and the availability of generating units. additionally, mississippi power purchases a portion of its electricity needs from the wholesale market. ii-41 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report details of mississippi power's generation and purchased power were as follows: 2019 2018 total generation (in millions of kwhs) 18,269 15,966 total purchased power (in millions of kwhs) 529 960 sources of generation (percent) gas 94 93 coal 6 7 cost of fuel, generated (in cents per net kwh) gas 2.26 2.65 coal 4.05 3.50 average cost of fuel, generated (in cents per net kwh) 2.37 2.72 average cost of purchased power (in cents per net kwh) 3.71 4.27 fuel and purchased power expenses were $427 million in 2019 , a decrease of $19 million, or 4.3%, as compared to the prior year. the decrease was primarily due to a $60 million decrease related to the average cost of fuel and purchased power primarily due to the lower average cost of natural gas, partially offset by a $41 million net increase associated with the volume of kwhs generated and purchased primarily due to the availability of mississippi power's lower-cost generation resources. fuel and purchased power energy transactions do not have a significant impact on earnings, since energy expenses are generally offset by energy revenues through mississippi power's fuel cost recovery clauses. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters mississippi power fuel cost recovery " herein and note 1 to the financial statements under " fuel costs " for additional information. fuel fuel expense increased $2 million , or 0.5% , in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to a 15% increase in the volume of kwhs generated, partially offset by a 13% net decrease in the average cost of fuel per kwh generated. purchased power purchased power expense decreased $21 million , or 51.2% , in 2019 compared to 2018 . the decrease was primarily the result of a 45% decrease in the volume of kwhs purchased due to the availability of mississippi power's lower-cost generation resources and a 13% decrease in the average cost per kwh purchased. energy purchases will vary depending on the market prices of wholesale energy as compared to the cost of the southern company system's generation, demand for energy within the southern company system's service territory, and the availability of the southern company system's generation. these purchases are made in accordance with the iic or other contractual agreements, as approved by the ferc. other operations and maintenance expenses other operations and maintenance expenses decreased $30 million , or 9.6% , in 2019 compared to the prior year. the decrease was primarily due to decreases of $21 million in compensation and benefit expenses primarily due to an employee attrition plan implemented in the third quarter 2018, $5 million in amortization of previously deferred plant ratcliffe expenses as a result of a settlement agreement reached with wholesale customers (mra settlement agreement), $5 million in planned generation outage costs, and $4 million in plant ratcliffe waste water treatment expenses. these decreases were partially offset by a $9 million increase in overhead line maintenance and vegetation management expenses. see note 2 to the financial statements under " mississippi power municipal and rural associations tariff " for additional information. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization increased $23 million , or 13.6% , in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily related to increases in amortization associated with eco plan regulatory assets. see note 2 to the financial statements under " mississippi power environmental compliance overview plan" for additional information. ii-42 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report taxes other than income taxes taxes other than income taxes increased $6 million , or 5.6% , in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to increases of $4 million in ad valorem taxes and $2 million in franchise taxes. estimated loss on kemper igcc in 2019 and 2018 , charges of $24 million and $37 million , respectively, were recorded associated with the abandonment and closure activities and period costs, net of sales proceeds for the mine and gasifier-related assets. the 2019 charge primarily related to the expected close out of a doe contract related to the kemper county energy facility. see note 2 to the financial statements under " kemper county energy facility " for additional information. interest expense, net of amounts capitalized interest expense, net of amounts capitalized decreased $7 million , or 9.2% , in 2019 compared to 2018 , primarily as the result of a decrease in outstanding long-term borrowings. see note 8 to the financial statements for additional information. other income (expense), net other income (expense), net decreased $5 million in 2019 compared to 2018 . the decrease was primarily due to the $24 million settlement of mississippi power's deepwater horizon claim in 2018, partially offset by a $9 million increase in interest income associated with a new tolling arrangement accounted for as a sales-type lease and a $7 million decrease in charitable donations. see notes 3 and 9 to the financial statements under " other matters mississippi power " and "lessor," respectively, for additional information. income taxes (benefit) income tax expense increased $132 million , or 129.4% , in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to a $92 million increase related to the 2018 reduction of a valuation allowance for a state income tax net operating loss (nol) carryforward, a $42 million increase associated with the revaluation of deferred tax assets related to the kemper igcc recorded in 2018 in accordance with the tax reform legislation, and a $9 million increase due to higher pre-tax earnings in 2019. these increases were partially offset by $15 million associated with the flowback of excess deferred income taxes resulting from the mra settlement agreement and a new tolling arrangement accounted for as a sales-type lease. see future earnings potential " income tax matters " herein and note 10 to the financial statements for additional information. southern power net income attributable to southern power for 2019 was $339 million , a $152 million increase from 2018 , primarily due to net impacts totaling approximately $141 million from the dispositions of the florida plants in 2018 and plant nacogdoches in the second quarter 2019, which include an asset impairment charge in 2018, a gain on sale in 2019 (including the recognition of deferred itcs), and a decrease in operations and maintenance expense, partially offset by ppa capacity revenue decreases in 2019. the increase in net income also reflects $79 million in tax expense recognized in 2018 related to the tax reform legislation, a $27 million wind turbine equipment impairment charge in 2018, and net gains in 2019 of $25 million from the roserock solar facility litigation settlement and sales of wind equipment. these increases were partially offset by $65 million in state income tax benefits recorded in 2018 arising from the reorganization of southern power's legal entities and reductions in net income of approximately $60 million related to the sp wind tax equity partnership entered into in 2018. see note 15 to the financial statements under "southern power sales of natural gas and biomass plants " and " development projects " for additional information on the florida plants and plant nacogdoches dispositions and sales of wind turbine equipment. see notes 7 and 10 to the financial statements under "southern power" and "legal entity reorganizations" for additional information on the tax equity partnerships and the legal entity reorganization, respectively. also see note 3 to the financial statements under "general litigation southern power" for additional information on the roserock solar facility litigation settlement. ii-43 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report a condensed statement of income follows: 2019 increase (decrease) from 2018 (in millions) operating revenues $ 1,938 $ (267 ) fuel 577 (122 ) purchased power 108 (68 ) other operations and maintenance 359 (36 ) depreciation and amortization 479 (14 ) taxes other than income taxes 40 (6 ) asset impairment 3 (153 ) gain on disposition (23 ) (21 ) total operating expenses 1,543 (420 ) operating income 395 153 interest expense, net of amounts capitalized 169 (14 ) other income (expense), net 47 24 income taxes (benefit) (56 ) 108 net income 329 83 net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (10 ) (69 ) net income attributable to southern power $ 339 $ 152 operating revenues total operating revenues include ppa capacity revenues, which are derived primarily from long-term contracts involving natural gas facilities and a biomass generating facility (through the second quarter 2019 sale of plant nacogdoches), and ppa energy revenues from southern power's generation facilities. to the extent southern power has capacity not contracted under a ppa, it may sell power into an accessible wholesale market, or, to the extent those generation assets are part of the ferc-approved iic, it may sell power into the southern company power pool. natural gas and biomass capacity and energy revenue capacity revenues generally represent the greatest contribution to operating income and are designed to provide recovery of fixed costs plus a return on investment. energy is generally sold at variable cost or is indexed to published natural gas indices. energy revenues will vary depending on the energy demand of southern power's customers and their generation capacity, as well as the market prices of wholesale energy compared to the cost of southern power's energy. energy revenues also include fees for support services, fuel storage, and unit start charges. increases and decreases in energy revenues under ppas that are driven by fuel or purchased power prices are accompanied by an increase or decrease in fuel and purchased power costs and do not have a significant impact on net income. solar and wind energy revenue southern power's energy sales from solar and wind generating facilities are predominantly through long-term ppas that do not have capacity revenue. customers either purchase the energy output of a dedicated renewable facility through an energy charge or pay a fixed price related to the energy generated from the respective facility and sold to the grid. as a result, southern power's ability to recover fixed and variable operations and maintenance expenses is dependent upon the level of energy generated from these facilities, which can be impacted by weather conditions, equipment performance, transmission constraints, and other factors. see future earnings potential " southern power's power sales agreements " herein for additional information regarding southern power's ppas. ii-44 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report operating revenues details details of southern power's operating revenues were as follows: 2019 2018 (in millions) ppa capacity revenues $ 482 $ 580 ppa energy revenues 1,081 1,140 total ppa revenues 1,563 1,720 non-ppa revenues 363 472 other revenues 12 13 total operating revenues $ 1,938 $ 2,205 operating revenues for 2019 were $1.9 billion , a $267 million , or 12% , decrease from 2018 . the decrease in operating revenues was primarily due to the following: ppa capacity revenues decreased $98 million, or 17%, primarily due to the sales of the florida plants in december 2018 and plant nacogdoches in june 2019. in addition, the change reflects a reduction of $34 million from the expiration of an affiliate natural gas ppa, offset by a $36 million increase in new ppa capacity revenues from existing natural gas facilities, of which $13 million related to the expansion unit at plant mankato. ppa energy revenues decreased $59 million, or 5%, primarily due to a $67 million decrease in sales from natural gas facilities primarily driven by a $103 million decrease in the average cost of fuel and purchased power, partially offset by a $36 million increase in the volume of kwhs sold due to increased customer load. non-ppa revenues decreased $109 million, or 23%, primarily due to a $72 million decrease in the volume of kwhs sold through short-term sales and a $37 million decrease in the market price of energy. fuel and purchased power expenses details of southern power's generation and purchased power were as follows: total kwhs total kwh % change total kwhs 2019 2018 (in billions of kwhs) generation 47 46 purchased power 3 4 total generation and purchased power 50 % 50 total generation and purchased power, excluding solar, wind, and tolling agreements 29 % 29 southern power's ppas for natural gas generation generally provide that the purchasers are responsible for either procuring the fuel (tolling agreements) or reimbursing southern power for substantially all of the cost of fuel relating to the energy delivered under such ppas. consequently, changes in such fuel costs are generally accompanied by a corresponding change in related fuel revenues and do not have a significant impact on net income. southern power is responsible for the cost of fuel for generating units that are not covered under ppas. power from these generating units is sold into the wholesale market or into the southern company power pool for capacity owned directly by southern power. purchased power expenses will vary depending on demand, availability, and the cost of generating resources throughout the southern company system and other contract resources. load requirements are submitted to the southern company power pool on an hourly basis and are fulfilled with the lowest cost alternative, whether that is generation owned by southern power, an affiliate company, or external parties. such purchased power costs are generally recovered through ppa revenues. ii-45 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report details of southern power's fuel and purchased power expenses were as follows: 2019 2018 (in millions) fuel $ 577 $ 699 purchased power 108 176 total fuel and purchased power expenses $ 685 $ 875 in 2019 , total fuel and purchased power expenses decreased $190 million , or 22% , compared to 2018 . fuel expense decreased $122 million, or 17%, due to a $137 million decrease in the average cost of fuel per kwh generated, partially offset by a $15 million increase associated with the volume of kwhs generated. purchased power expense decreased $68 million, or 39%, due to a $37 million decrease associated with the average cost of purchased power and a $31 million decrease associated with the volume of kwhs purchased. other operations and maintenance expenses in 2019 , other operations and maintenance expenses decreased $36 million , or 9% , compared to 2018 . the decrease was due to gains totaling $17 million on the sale of wind turbine equipment, decreased expense of $17 million related to the dispositions of the florida plants and plant nacogdoches, and the recovery of $5 million in legal costs related to the roserock solar facility litigation settlement in the first quarter 2019. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern power development projects " and " sales of natural gas and biomass plants " for additional information on the sale of wind turbine equipment and the dispositions, respectively. also see note 3 to the financial statements under "general litigation matters southern power " for additional information on the litigation settlement. asset impairment asset impairment charges totaling $156 million were recorded in 2018, including $119 million related to the sale of the florida plants and $36 million related to wind turbine equipment held for development projects. asset impairment charges in 2019 were immaterial. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern power sales of natural gas and biomass plants " and " development projects " for additional information. gain on dispositions, net the sale of plant nacogdoches in 2019 resulted in a $23 million gain. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern power sales of natural gas and biomass plants " for additional information. interest expense, net of amounts capitalized in 2019 , interest expense, net of amounts capitalized decreased $14 million , or 8% , compared to 2018 , primarily due to a decrease in the amount of outstanding debt. other income (expense), net in 2019 , other income (expense), net increased $24 million , or 104% , compared to 2018 primarily due to a $36 million gain arising from the roserock solar facility litigation settlement in 2019, partially offset by a $14 million gain from a joint-development wind project in 2018 attributable to southern power's partner in the project, which was offset by a $14 million loss within noncontrolling interests. see note 3 to the financial statements under "southern power" for additional information regarding the litigation settlement. income taxes (benefit) in 2019 , income tax benefit was $56 million compared to $164 million for 2018 , a decrease of $108 million, primarily attributable to reductions in tax benefits of $127 million from wind ptcs primarily following the 2018 sale of a noncontrolling tax equity interest in sp wind and $65 million from changes in state apportionment rates following the 2018 reorganizations of certain legal entities, as well as a $64 million increase in income tax expense as a result of higher pre-tax earnings, partially offset by $79 million in tax expense recognized in 2018 related to the tax reform legislation and a $75 million tax benefit resulting from the recognition of deferred itcs remaining from the original construction recognized in connection with the sale of plant nacogdoches. ii-46 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report see future earnings potential " income tax matters federal tax reform legislation " herein and notes 1 , 10 , and 15 to the financial statements under " income taxes ," " effective tax rate ," and "southern power," respectively, for additional information. net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in 2019 , net income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased $69 million , or 117% , compared to 2018 . the decrease was primarily due to $92 million of losses attributable to noncontrolling interests related to the tax equity partnerships entered into in 2018 and $14 million attributable to a joint-development wind project in 2018, partially offset by an allocation of approximately $29 million of income to the noncontrolling interest partner related to the roserock solar facility litigation settlement. see note 3 to the financial statements under " general litigation matters southern power " and note 7 to the financial statements under " southern power " for additional information regarding the litigation settlement and tax equity partnerships, respectively. southern company gas operating metrics southern company gas continues to focus on several operating metrics, including heating degree days, customer count, and volumes of natural gas sold. southern company gas measures weather and the effect on its business using heating degree days. generally, increased heating degree days result in higher demand for natural gas on southern company gas' distribution system. southern company gas has various regulatory mechanisms, such as weather and revenue normalization and straight-fixed-variable rate design, which limit its exposure to weather changes within typical ranges in each of its utility's respective service territory, including nicor gas following the approval of a revenue decoupling mechanism for residential customers in its recent rate case. southern company gas also utilizes weather hedges to limit the negative income impacts in the event of warmer-than-normal weather. the number of customers served by gas distribution operations and gas marketing services can be impacted by natural gas prices, economic conditions, and competition from alternative fuels. gas distribution operations and gas marketing services' customers are primarily located in georgia and illinois. southern company gas' natural gas volume metrics for gas distribution operations and gas marketing services illustrate the effects of weather and customer demand for natural gas. wholesale gas services' physical sales volumes represent the daily average natural gas volumes sold to its customers. seasonality of results during the heating season, natural gas usage and operating revenues are generally higher as more customers are connected to the gas distribution systems and natural gas usage is higher in periods of colder weather. occasionally in the summer, wholesale gas services' operating revenues are impacted due to peak usage by power generators in response to summer energy demands. southern company gas' base operating expenses, excluding cost of natural gas, bad debt expense, and certain incentive compensation costs, are incurred relatively evenly throughout the year. seasonality also affects the comparison of certain balance sheet items across quarters, including receivables, unbilled revenues, natural gas for sale, and notes payable. however, these items are comparable when reviewing southern company gas' annual results. thus, southern company gas' operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonality, which is illustrated in the table below. percent generated during heating season operating revenues net income 2019 68.7 % 86.8 % 2018 68.7 % 96.0 % net income net income attributable to southern company gas in 2019 was $585 million, an increase of $213 million, or 57.3%, compared to the prior year. the change in net income includes a $125 million increase at wholesale gas services, an increase of $57 million in continued investment in infrastructure replacement programs and base rate changes at gas distribution operations, net of depreciation, a $34 million decrease in income taxes primarily at atlanta gas light due to increased flowback of excess deferred income taxes in lieu of a rate increase as previously authorized by the georgia psc, and an $11 million increase in earnings from equity method investments in 2019. this increase also includes a $51 million net loss in 2018 from the southern company gas ii-47 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report dispositions (including the goodwill impairment charge) and $21 million in disposition-related costs in 2018, partially offset by $86 million in after-tax impairment charges in 2019. see notes 3 and 15 to the financial statements under " other matters southern company gas " and " southern company gas proposed sale of pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline ," respectively, for additional information on the impairment charges. see note 2 to the financial statements under "southern company gas rate proceedings nicor gas" and " atlanta gas light" for additional information on the impacts of the tax reform legislation. also see future earnings potential " income tax matters " herein and notes 10 and 15 to the financial statements for additional information. a condensed income statement for southern company gas follows: 2019 increase (decrease) from 2018 (in millions) operating revenues $ 3,792 $ (117 ) cost of natural gas 1,319 (220 ) cost of other sales (12 ) other operations and maintenance 888 (93 ) depreciation and amortization 487 (13 ) taxes other than income taxes 213 2 impairment charges 115 73 (gain) loss on dispositions, net 291 total operating expenses 3,022 28 operating income 770 (145 ) earnings from equity method investments 157 9 interest expense, net of amounts capitalized 232 4 other income (expense), net 20 19 earnings before income taxes 715 (121 ) income taxes 130 (334 ) net income $ 585 $ 213 the southern company gas dispositions were completed by july 29, 2018 and represent the primary variance driver for 2019 compared to 2018. detailed variance explanations are provided herein. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company gas " for additional information on the southern company gas dispositions. ii-48 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report operating revenues operating revenues in 2019 were $3.8 billion , a $117 million decrease , compared to 2018. details of operating revenues were as follows: 2019 (in millions) operating revenues prior year $ 3,909 estimated change resulting from infrastructure replacement programs and base rate changes 96 gas costs and other cost recovery (89 ) wholesale gas services 150 southern company gas dispositions (*) (300 ) other 26 operating revenues current year $ 3,792 percent change (3.0 )% (*) includes a $245 million decrease related to natural gas revenues, including alternative revenue programs, and a $55 million decrease related to other revenues. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company gas " for additional information. revenues from infrastructure replacement programs and base rate changes increased in 2019 compared to the prior year primarily due to increases of $74 million at nicor gas and $16 million at atlanta gas light. these amounts include gas distribution operations' continued investments recovered through infrastructure replacement programs and base rate increases as well as customer refunds in 2018 as a result of the tax reform legislation. see note 2 to the financial statements under " southern company gas " for additional information. revenues associated with gas costs and other cost recovery decreased in 2019 compared to the prior year primarily due to lower natural gas prices and decreased volumes of natural gas sold. natural gas distribution rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in natural gas costs. therefore, gas costs recovered through natural gas revenues generally equal the amount expensed in cost of natural gas and do not affect net income from gas distribution operations. see " cost of natural gas " herein for additional information. revenues from wholesale gas services increased in 2019 primarily due to derivative gains, partially offset by decreased commercial activity. see " segment information wholesale gas services " herein for additional information. other revenues increased in 2019 primarily due to increases in customers at gas distribution operations and recovery of prior period hedge losses at gas marketing services. heating degree days during heating season, natural gas usage and operating revenues are generally higher. weather typically does not have a significant net income impact other than during the heating season. the following table presents the heating degree days information for illinois and georgia, the primary locations where southern company gas' operations are impacted by weather. years ended december 31, 2019 vs. normal 2019 vs. 2018 normal (a) 2019 2018 colder (warmer) colder (warmer) (in thousands) illinois (b) 5,782 6,136 6,101 6.1 % 0.6 % georgia 2,529 2,157 2,588 (14.7 )% (16.7 )% (a) normal represents the 10-year average from january 1, 2009 through december 31, 2018 for illinois at chicago midway international airport and for georgia at atlanta hartsfield-jackson international airport, based on information obtained from the national oceanic and atmospheric administration, national climatic data center. (b) heating degree days in illinois are expected to have a limited financial impact in future years. on october 2, 2019, nicor gas received approval for a volume balancing adjustment, a revenue decoupling mechanism for residential customers that provides a monthly benchmark level of revenue per rate class for recovery. ii-49 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report southern company gas hedged its exposure to warmer-than-normal weather in illinois for gas distribution operations and in illinois and georgia for gas marketing services. the remaining impacts of weather on earnings were immaterial. customer count the following table provides the number of customers served by southern company gas at december 31, 2019 and 2018 : 2019 2018 (in thousands, except market share %) gas distribution operations 4,277 4,248 gas marketing services energy customers (*) 631 697 market share of energy customers in georgia 28.9 % 29.0 % (*) gas marketing services' customers are primarily located in georgia and illinois. also included as of december 31, 2018 were approximately 70,000 customers in ohio contracted through an annual auction process to serve for 12 months beginning april 1, 2018. southern company gas anticipates overall customer growth trends in gas distribution operations to continue as it expects continued improvement in the new housing market and low natural gas prices. southern company gas uses a variety of targeted marketing programs to attract new customers and to retain existing customers. cost of natural gas excluding atlanta gas light, which does not sell natural gas to end-use customers, gas distribution operations charges its utility customers for natural gas consumed using natural gas cost recovery mechanisms set by the applicable state regulatory agencies. under these mechanisms, all prudently-incurred natural gas costs are passed through to customers without markup, subject to regulatory review. gas distribution operations defers or accrues the difference between the actual cost of natural gas and the amount of commodity revenue earned in a given period. the deferred or accrued amount is either billed or refunded to customers prospectively through adjustments to the commodity rate. deferred natural gas costs are reflected as regulatory assets and accrued natural gas costs are reflected as regulatory liabilities. therefore, gas costs recovered through natural gas revenues generally equal the amount expensed in cost of natural gas and do not affect net income from gas distribution operations. cost of natural gas at gas distribution operations represented 84.5% of the total cost of natural gas for 2019 . gas marketing services customers are charged for actual and estimated natural gas consumed. cost of natural gas includes the cost of fuel and associated transportation costs, lost and unaccounted for gas, adjustments to reduce the value of inventories to market value, if applicable, and gains and losses associated with certain derivatives. in 2019 , cost of natural gas was $1.3 billion , a decrease of $220 million , or 14.3% , compared to the prior year. excluding a $106 million decrease related to the southern company gas dispositions, cost of natural gas decreased by $114 million, which reflects a 14.8% decrease in natural gas prices compared to 2018. ii-50 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report volumes of natural gas sold the following table details the volumes of natural gas sold during all periods presented. 2019 vs. 2018 2019 2018 % change gas distribution operations (mmbtu in millions) firm 677 721 (6.1 )% interruptible 92 95 (3.2 )% total(*) 769 816 (5.8 )% wholesale gas services (mmbtu in millions/day) daily physical sales 6.4 6.7 (4.5 )% gas marketing services (mmbtu in millions) firm: georgia 33 37 (10.8 )% illinois 12 13 (7.7 )% other 15 20 (25.0 )% interruptible large commercial and industrial 14 14 % total 74 84 (11.9 )% (*) includes total volumes of natural gas sold of 38 mmbtu for 2018 related to elizabethtown gas, elkton gas, and florida city gas, which were sold in july 2018. see note 15 to the financial statements under "southern company gas sale of elizabethtown gas and elkton gas" and " sale of florida city gas" for additional information. cost of other sales cost of other sales related to pivotal home solutions, which was sold on june 4, 2018. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company gas sale of pivotal home solutions " for additional information. other operations and maintenance expenses in 2019 , other operations and maintenance expenses decrease d $93 million , or 9.5% , compared to the prior year. excluding a $65 million decrease related to the southern company gas dispositions, other operations and maintenance expenses decreased $28 million. this decrease was primarily due to $28 million of disposition-related costs incurred during 2018, a $12 million adjustment in 2018 for the adoption of a new paid time off policy, an $11 million expense for a litigation settlement to facilitate the sale of pivotal home solutions in 2018, and a $7 million decrease in compensation and benefits costs, partially offset by a $22 million increase in rider expenses, primarily at nicor gas, passed through directly to customers. see future earnings potential " southern company gas utility regulation and rate design " herein for additional information. depreciation and amortization in 2019 , depreciation and amortization decrease d $13 million , or 2.6% , compared to the prior year. excluding a $27 million decrease related to the southern company gas dispositions, depreciation and amortization increased $14 million. this increase was primarily due to continued infrastructure investments at gas distribution operations, partially offset by accelerated depreciation related to assets retired in 2018. see note 2 to the financial statements under " southern company gas infrastructure replacement programs and capital projects " for additional information. impairment charges in 2019 , southern company gas recorded impairment charges of $91 million related to a natural gas storage facility in louisiana and $24 million in contemplation of the sale of its interests in pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline. in 2018 , a goodwill impairment charge of $42 million was r ecorded in contemplation of the sale of pivotal home solutions. see notes 1 , 3 , and 15 to the financial statements under " goodwill and other intangible assets and liabilities ," " other matters southern company gas ," and " southern company gas ," respectively, for additional information. ii-51 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report (gain) loss on dispositions, net in 2018 , gain on dispositions, net was $291 million and was associated with the southern company gas dispositions. the income tax expense on these gains included income tax expense on goodwill not deductible for tax purposes and for which a deferred tax liability had not been recorded previously. earnings from equity method investments in 2019 , earnings from equity method investments increase d $9 million , or 6.1% , compared to the prior year and reflect higher earnings from sng as a result of rate increases that became effective september 2018, partially offset by a $6 million pre-tax loss on the sale of triton in may 2019. see note 7 to the financial statements under " southern company gas " for additional information. other income (expense), net in 2019 , other income (expense), net increase d $19 million compared to the prior year. this increase primarily resulted from a $23 million decrease in charitable donations in 2019. income taxes in 2019 , income taxes decrease d $334 million , or 72.0% , compared to the prior year. this decrease primarily reflects a reduction of $348 million related to the southern company gas dispositions, as well as $29 million in benefits associated with impairment charges in 2019 and additional benefits from the flowback of excess deferred income taxes in 2019 primarily at atlanta gas light as previously authorized by the georgia psc, partially offset by $48 million of additional taxes associated with increased pre-tax earnings at wholesale gas services. see future earnings potential " income tax matters " herein and note 10 to the financial statements for additional information. also see notes 2 , 3 , and 15 to the financial statements under " southern company gas ," " other matters southern company gas ," and " southern company gas proposed sale of pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline ," respectively, for additional information on atlanta gas light's regulatory treatment of the impacts of the tax reform legislation and the impairment charges. performance and non-gaap measures adjusted operating margin is a non-gaap measure that is calculated as operating revenues less cost of natural gas, cost of other sales, and revenue tax expense. adjusted operating margin excludes other operations and maintenance expenses, depreciation and amortization, taxes other than income taxes, impairment charges, and gain (loss) on dispositions, net, which are included in the calculation of operating income as calculated in accordance with gaap and reflected in the statements of income. the presentation of adjusted operating margin is believed to provide useful information regarding the contribution resulting from base rate changes, infrastructure replacement programs and capital projects, and customer growth at gas distribution operations since the cost of natural gas and revenue tax expense can vary significantly and are generally billed directly to customers. southern company gas further believes that utilizing adjusted operating margin at gas pipeline investments, wholesale gas services, and gas marketing services allows it to focus on a direct measure of performance before overhead costs. the applicable reconciliation of operating income to adjusted operating margin is provided herein. adjusted operating margin should not be considered an alternative to, or a more meaningful indicator of, southern company gas' operating performance than operating income as determined in accordance with gaap. in addition, southern company gas' adjusted operating margin may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. detailed variance explanations of southern company gas' financial performance are provided herein. ii-52 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report reconciliations of operating income to adjusted operating margin are as follows: 2019 2018 (in millions) operating income $ 770 $ 915 other operating expenses (a) 1,703 1,443 revenue taxes (b) (114 ) (111 ) adjusted operating margin $ 2,359 $ 2,247 (a) includes other operations and maintenance, depreciation and amortization, taxes other than income taxes, impairment charges, and gain (loss) on dispositions, net. (b) nicor gas' revenue tax expenses, which are passed through directly to customers. segment information 2019 2018 adjusted operating margin (a) operating expenses (a) net income (loss) adjusted operating margin (a) operating expenses (a)(b) net income (loss) (b) (in millions) (in millions) gas distribution operations $ 1,799 $ 1,226 $ 337 $ 1,794 $ 890 $ 334 gas pipeline investments 32 12 94 32 12 103 wholesale gas services 273 54 163 134 64 38 gas marketing services 234 122 83 263 244 (40 ) all other 28 182 (92 ) 33 131 (63 ) intercompany eliminations (7 ) (7 ) (9 ) (9 ) consolidated $ 2,359 $ 1,589 $ 585 $ 2,247 $ 1,332 $ 372 (a) adjusted operating margin and operating expenses are adjusted for nicor gas' revenue tax expenses, which are passed through directly to customers. (b) operating expenses for gas distribution operations and gas marketing services include the gain on dispositions, net. net income for gas distribution operations and gas marketing services includes the gain on dispositions, net and the associated income tax expense. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company gas " for additional information. gas distribution operations gas distribution operations is the largest component of southern company gas' business and is subject to regulation and oversight by agencies in each of the states it serves. these agencies approve natural gas rates designed to provide southern company gas with the opportunity to generate revenues to recover the cost of natural gas delivered to its customers and its fixed and variable costs, including depreciation, interest expense, operations and maintenance, taxes, and overhead costs, and to earn a reasonable return on its investments. with the exception of atlanta gas light, southern company gas' second largest utility that operates in a deregulated natural gas market and has a straight-fixed-variable rate design that minimizes the variability of its revenues based on consumption, the earnings of the natural gas distribution utilities can be affected by customer consumption patterns that are a function of weather conditions, price levels for natural gas, and general economic conditions that may impact customers' ability to pay for natural gas consumed. southern company gas has various weather mechanisms, such as weather normalization mechanisms and weather derivative instruments, that limit its exposure to weather changes within typical ranges in its natural gas distribution utilities' service territories. in july 2018, a southern company gas subsidiary, pivotal utility holdings, completed the sales of the assets of two of its natural gas distribution utilities, elizabethtown gas and elkton gas, to south jersey industries, inc. also in july 2018, southern company gas and its wholly-owned direct subsidiary, nui corporation, completed the sale of pivotal utility holdings, which primarily consisted of florida city gas, to nextera energy. see note 15 to the financial statements under "southern company gas" for additional information. ii-53 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report the following table details the results of gas distribution operations including and excluding the impact of the utilities sold in 2018. favorable(unfavorable) 2019 vs 2018 impacts of utilities sold in 2018 variance excluding utilities sold in 2018 (in millions) adjusted operating margin $ 5 $ 138 $ 143 operating expenses (336 ) 246 (90 ) other income (expense), net (3 ) (3 ) interest expenses (9 ) (13 ) (22 ) income tax expense 346 (315 ) 31 net income $ 3 $ 56 $ 59 excluding the impact of the utilities sold in 2018, net income in 2019 increase d $59 million , or 21.2%, compared to the prior year. the $143 million increase in adjusted operating margin reflects additional revenue from base rate increases and continued investment recovered through infrastructure replacement programs, a decrease in refunds associated with bad debt riders, and the customer refunds in 2018 as a result of the tax reform legislation. the $90 million increase in operating expenses includes increases in compensation and benefit costs and rider expenses passed through directly to customers, as well as additional depreciation primarily due to additional assets placed in service. the $3 million decrease in other income (expense), net is primarily due to a contractor litigation settlement in 2018. the $22 million increase in interest expense is primarily from the issuance of first mortgage bonds at nicor gas. the $31 million decrease in income tax expense is primarily due to an increase in the flowback of excess deferred income taxes in 2019 primarily at atlanta gas light. see note 2 to the financial statements under " southern company gas rate proceedings atlanta gas light " and " infrastructure replacement programs and capital projects atlanta gas light prp " herein for additional information on atlanta gas light's stipulation reflecting the impacts of the tax reform legislation and the contractor litigation settlement, respectively. gas pipeline investments gas pipeline investments consists primarily of joint ventures in natural gas pipeline investments including sng, atlantic coast pipeline, penneast pipeline, and dalton pipeline. see note 7 to the financial statements under " southern company gas " for additional information. net income in 2019 decrease d $9 million, or 8.7%, compared to the prior year. this decrease primarily relates to an increase in tax expense due to changes in state apportionment rates, partially offset by higher earnings from sng. wholesale gas services wholesale gas services is involved in asset management and optimization, storage, transportation, producer and peaking services, natural gas supply, natural gas services, and wholesale gas marketing. southern company gas has positioned the business to generate positive economic earnings on an annual basis even under low volatility market conditions that can result from a number of factors. when market price volatility increases, wholesale gas services is well positioned to capture significant value and generate stronger results. operating expenses primarily reflect employee compensation and benefits. net income in 2019 increased $125 million, or 328.9%, compared to the prior year. this increase primarily relates to a $139 million increase in adjusted operating margin, a $10 million decrease in operating expenses, and a $20 million increase in other income (expense), partially offset by a $48 million increase in income taxes. ii-54 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report details of adjusted operating margin are provided in the table below. 2019 2018 (in millions) commercial activity recognized $ 54 $ 254 gain on storage derivatives 40 9 gain (loss) on transportation and forward commodity derivatives 186 (119 ) locom adjustments, net of current period recoveries (16 ) (7 ) purchase accounting adjustments to fair value inventory and contracts 9 (3 ) adjusted operating margin $ 273 $ 134 change in commercial activity the commercial activity at wholesale gas services includes recognition of storage and transportation values that were generated in prior periods, which reflect the impact of prior period hedge gains and losses as associated physical transactions occur. the decrease in commercial activity in 2019 compared to the prior year was primarily due to significant natural gas price volatility that resulted from prolonged cold weather during 2018 coupled with low natural gas supply. change in storage and transportation derivatives volatility in the natural gas market arises from a number of factors, such as weather fluctuations or changes in supply or demand for natural gas in different regions of the u.s. the volatility of natural gas commodity prices has a significant impact on southern company gas' customer rates, long-term competitive position against other energy sources, and the ability of wholesale gas services to capture value from locational and seasonal spreads. forward storage or time spreads applicable to the locations of wholesale gas services' specific storage positions in 2019 resulted in storage derivative gains. transportation and forward commodity derivative gains in 2019 are primarily the result of narrowing transportation spreads due to supply constraints and increases in natural gas supply, which impacted forward prices at natural gas receipt and delivery points, primarily in the northeast and midwest regions. the natural gas that wholesale gas services purchases and injects into storage is accounted for at the locom value utilizing gas daily or spot prices at the end of the year. see note 1 to the financial statements under " natural gas for sale " for additional information. withdrawal schedule and physical transportation transactions the expected natural gas withdrawals from storage and expected offset to prior hedge losses/gains associated with the transportation portfolio of wholesale gas services are presented in the following table, along with the net operating revenues expected at the time of withdrawal from storage and the physical flow of natural gas between contracted transportation receipt and delivery points. wholesale gas services' expected net operating revenues exclude storage and transportation demand charges, as well as other variable fuel, withdrawal, receipt, and delivery charges, and exclude estimated profit sharing under asset management agreements. further, the amounts that are realizable in future periods are based on the inventory withdrawal schedule, planned physical flow of natural gas between the transportation receipt and delivery points, and forward natural gas prices at december 31, 2019 . a portion of wholesale gas services' storage inventory and transportation capacity is economically hedged with futures contracts, which results in the realization of substantially fixed net operating revenues. ii-55 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report storage withdrawal total storage (a) expected net operating losses (b) physical transportation transactions expected net operating gains (c) (in mmbtu in millions) (in millions) (in millions) 2020 61 $ 6 $ (119 ) 2021 and thereafter (67 ) total at december 31, 2019 61 $ 6 $ (186 ) (a) at december 31, 2019 , the wacog of wholesale gas services' expected natural gas withdrawals from storage was $1.87 per mmbtu. (b) represents expected operating losses from planned storage withdrawals associated with existing inventory positions and could change as wholesale gas services adjusts its daily injection and withdrawal plans in response to changes in future market conditions and forward nymex price fluctuations. (c) represents the expected net gains during the periods in which the derivatives will be settled and the physical transportation transactions will occur that offset the derivative gains and losses previously recognized. gas marketing services gas marketing services provides energy-related products and services to natural gas markets and participants in customer choice programs that were approved in various states to increase competition. these programs allow customers to choose their natural gas supplier while the local distribution utility continues to provide distribution and transportation services . gas marketing services is weather sensitive and uses a variety of hedging strategies, such as weather derivative instruments and other risk management tools, to partially mitigate potential weather impacts. on june 4, 2018, southern company gas completed the sale of pivotal home solutions to american water enterprises llc. see note 15 under " southern company gas sale of pivotal home solutions " for additional information. net income increased $123 million in 2019 compared to the prior year. this increase primarily relates to a $122 million decrease in operating expenses and a $27 million decrease in income tax expense, partially offset by a $29 million decrease in adjusted operating margin. excluding a $43 million decrease attributable to the 2018 disposition of pivotal home solutions, adjusted operating margin increased $14 million, which primarily reflects favorable margins and recovery of prior period hedge losses. excluding a $116 million decrease attributable to the 2018 disposition of pivotal home solutions that includes the related goodwill impairment charge, operating expense decreased $6 million due to lower amortization of intangible assets. excluding a $33 million decrease attributable to the 2018 disposition of pivotal home solutions, income tax expense increased $6 million primarily due to higher pre-tax earnings. all other all other includes southern company gas' storage and fuels operations and its investment in triton through completion of its sale on may 29, 2019, agl services company, and southern company gas capital, as well as various corporate operating expenses that are not allocated to the reportable segments and interest income (expense) associated with affiliate financing arrangements. net loss increased $29 million, or 46.0%, in 2019 compared to the prior year. this increase primarily reflects a $51 million increase in operating expenses, partially offset by a $39 million decrease in income taxes. the increase in operating expenses primarily reflects a $91 million impairment charge related to a natural gas storage facility in louisiana and a $24 million impairment charge in contemplation of the sale of southern company gas' interests in pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline, partially offset by a $12 million one-time adjustment in the first quarter 2018 for the adoption of a new paid time off policy, $28 million of disposition-related costs incurred during 2018, and a $14 million decrease in depreciation and amortization. the decrease in income taxes reflects a $29 million benefit due to the impairment charge, a $13 million benefit related to the reversal of a federal income tax valuation allowance in connection with the sale of triton, the impact of deferred tax expenses related to the enactment of the state of illinois income tax legislation in 2018, and changes in state income tax apportionment factors in several states during 2019. see note 3 to the financial statements under " other matters southern company gas ," note 10 to the financial statements, and note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company gas proposed sale of pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline " for additional information. segment reconciliations reconciliations of operating income to adjusted operating margin for 2019 and 2018 are provided in the following tables. see note 16 to the financial statements under " southern company gas " for additional segment information. ii-56 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report 2019 gas distribution operations gas pipeline investments wholesale gas services gas marketing services all other intercompany elimination consolidated (in millions) operating income (loss) $ 573 $ 20 $ 219 $ 112 $ (154 ) $ $ 770 other operating expenses (a) 1,340 12 54 122 182 (7 ) 1,703 revenue tax expense (b) (114 ) (114 ) adjusted operating margin $ 1,799 $ 32 $ 273 $ 234 $ 28 $ (7 ) $ 2,359 2018 gas distribution operations gas pipeline investments wholesale gas services gas marketing services all other intercompany elimination consolidated (in millions) operating income (loss) $ 904 $ 20 $ 70 $ 19 $ (98 ) $ $ 915 other operating expenses (a) 1,001 12 64 244 131 (9 ) 1,443 revenue tax expense (b) (111 ) (111 ) adjusted operating margin $ 1,794 $ 32 $ 134 $ 263 $ 33 $ (9 ) $ 2,247 (a) includes other operations and maintenance, depreciation and amortization, taxes other than income taxes, impairment charges, and (gain) loss on dispositions, net. (b) nicor gas' revenue tax expenses, which are passed through directly to customers. effects of inflation the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities are subject to rate regulation that is generally based on the recovery of historical and projected costs. the effects of inflation can create an economic loss since the recovery of costs could be in dollars that have less purchasing power. southern power is party to long-term contracts reflecting market-based rates, including inflation expectations. any adverse effect of inflation on the registrants' results of operations has not been substantial in recent years. see note 2 to the financial statements for additional information on rate regulation. future earnings potential general prices for electric service provided by the traditional electric operating companies and natural gas distributed by the natural gas distribution utilities to retail customers are set by state pscs or other applicable state regulatory agencies under cost-based regulatory principles. retail rates and earnings are reviewed and may be adjusted periodically within certain limitations. prices for wholesale electricity sales, interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power are regulated by the ferc. southern power continues to focus on long-term ppas. see accounting policies " application of critical accounting policies and estimates utility regulation " herein and note 2 to the financial statements for additional information about regulatory matters. each registrant's results of operations are not necessarily indicative of its future earnings potential. recent disposition activities described under " acquisitions and dispositions " herein and in note 15 to the financial statements will impact future earnings for the applicable registrants. the level of the registrants' future earnings depends on numerous factors that affect the opportunities, challenges, and risks of the registrants' primary businesses of selling electricity and/or distributing natural gas, as described further herein. for the traditional electric operating companies, these factors include the ability to maintain constructive regulatory environments that allow for the timely recovery of prudently-incurred costs during a time of increasing costs, continued customer growth, and the trend of reduced electricity usage per customer, especially in residential and commercial markets. other major factors include plant vogtle units 3 and 4 construction and rate recovery related thereto for georgia power and the ability to prevail against legal challenges associated with the kemper county energy facility for mississippi power. ii-57 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report earnings in the electricity business will also depend upon maintaining and growing sales, considering, among other things, the adoption and/or penetration rates of increasingly energy-efficient technologies, increasing volumes of electronic commerce transactions, and, for georgia power, more multi-family home construction, all of which could contribute to a net reduction in customer usage. the level of future earnings for southern power's competitive wholesale electric business depends on numerous factors including southern power's ability to execute its growth strategy through the development or acquisition of renewable facilities and other energy projects while containing costs, as well as regulatory matters, creditworthiness of customers, total electric generating capacity available in southern power's market areas, and southern power's ability to successfully remarket capacity as current contracts expire. in addition, renewable portfolio standards, transmission constraints, cost of generation from units within the southern company power pool, and operational limitations could influence southern power's future earnings. the level of future earnings for southern company gas' primary business of distributing natural gas and its complementary businesses in the gas pipeline investments, wholesale gas services, and gas marketing services sectors depends on numerous factors. these factors include the natural gas distribution utilities' ability to maintain constructive regulatory environments that allow for the timely recovery of prudently-incurred costs, the completion and subsequent operation of ongoing infrastructure and other construction projects, creditworthiness of customers, and southern company gas' ability to optimize its transportation and storage positions and to re-contract storage rates at favorable prices. the volatility of natural gas prices has an impact on southern company gas' customer rates, its long-term competitive position against other energy sources, and the ability of southern company gas' gas marketing services and wholesale gas services businesses to capture value from locational and seasonal spreads. additionally, changes in commodity prices subject a portion of southern company gas' operations to earnings variability. over the longer term, volatility is expected to be low to moderate and locational and/or transportation spreads are expected to decrease as new pipelines are built to reduce the existing supply constraints in the shale areas of the northeast u.s. to the extent these pipelines are further delayed or not built, volatility could increase. see " construction programs " herein for additional information on permitting challenges experienced by the atlantic coast pipeline and the penneast pipeline. additional economic factors may contribute to this environment, including a significant drop in oil and natural gas prices, which could lead to consolidation of natural gas producers or reduced levels of natural gas production. further, if economic conditions continue to improve, the demand for natural gas may increase, which may cause natural gas prices to rise and drive higher volatility in the natural gas markets on a longer-term basis. earnings for both the electricity and natural gas businesses are subject to a variety of other factors. these factors include weather, competition, developing new and maintaining existing energy contracts and associated load requirements with wholesale customers, energy conservation practiced by customers, the use of alternative energy sources by customers, the prices of electricity and natural gas, and the price elasticity of demand. demand for electricity and natural gas in the registrants' service territories is primarily driven by the pace of economic growth or decline that may be affected by changes in regional and global economic conditions, which may impact future earnings. mississippi power provides service under long-term contracts with rural electric cooperative associations and municipalities located in southeastern mississippi under cost-based electric tariffs which are subject to regulation by the ferc. the contracts with these wholesale customers represented 15.7% of mississippi power's total operating revenues in 2019 and are generally subject to 10-year rolling cancellation notices. historically, these wholesale customers have acted as a group and any changes in contractual relationships for one customer are likely to be followed by the other wholesale customers. as part of its ongoing effort to adapt to changing market conditions, southern company continues to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential business strategies. these strategies may include business combinations, partnerships, and acquisitions involving other utility or non-utility businesses or properties, disposition of certain assets or businesses, internal restructuring, or some combination thereof. furthermore, southern company may engage in new business ventures that arise from competitive and regulatory changes in the utility industry. pursuit of any of the above strategies, or any combination thereof, may significantly affect the business operations, risks, and financial condition of southern company. in addition, southern power and southern company gas regularly consider and evaluate joint development arrangements as well as acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and assets as part of their business strategies. see " acquisitions and dispositions " herein and note 15 to the financial statements for additional information. ii-58 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report acquisitions and dispositions see note 15 to the financial statements for additional information. southern company on january 1, 2019, southern company completed the sale of gulf power to nextera energy for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $5.8 billion (less $1.3 billion of indebtedness assumed), including the final working capital adjustments. the gain associated with the sale of gulf power totaled $2.6 billion pre-tax ($1.4 billion after tax). in 2018, net income attributable to gulf power was $160 million. alabama power on september 6, 2019, alabama power entered into a purchase and sale agreement (autauga combined cycle acquisition) to acquire all of the equity interests in tenaska alabama ii partners, l.p. tenaska alabama ii partners, l.p. owns and operates an approximately 885-mw combined cycle generation facility in autauga county, alabama. the transaction is expected to close by september 1, 2020. as part of the autauga combined cycle acquisition, alabama power will assume an existing power sales agreement under which the full output of the generating facility remains committed to another third party for its remaining term of approximately three years. the estimated revenues from the power sales agreement are expected to offset the associated costs of operation during the remaining term. the completion of the autauga combined cycle acquisition is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, among other customary conditions, approval by the alabama psc and the ferc. alabama power expects to obtain all regulatory approvals by the end of the third quarter 2020. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. southern power acquisitions during 2019 , southern power acquired a controlling interest in the fuel cell generation facility listed below and acquired the skookumchuck wind facility discussed under " construction programs southern power " herein. acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not material. project facility resource approximate nameplate capacity ( mw ) location southern power ownership percentage cod ppa counterparty ppa remaining period dsgp (a) fuel cell 28 delaware 100% of class b n/a (b) delmarva power &amp; light 15 years (a) during 2019, southern power made a total investment of approximately $167 million in dsgp and now holds a controlling interest and consolidates 100% of dsgp's operating results. southern power records net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for approximately 10 mws of the facility. (b) southern power's 18-mw share of the facility was repowered between june and august 2019. in december 2019, a class c member joined the existing partnership between the class a member and southern power and made an investment to repower the remaining 10 mws. in connection with the class c member joining the partnership, the original fuel cells (before repower), which had a carrying value of approximately $55 million, were distributed to the class a member in a non-cash transaction that was excluded from the statements of cash flows. development projects southern power continues to evaluate and refine the deployment of the remaining wind turbine equipment purchased in 2016 and 2017 to development and construction projects. wind projects utilizing equipment purchased in 2016 and 2017, and reaching commercial operation by the end of 2020 and 2021, are expected to qualify for 100% and 80% ptcs, respectively. the significant majority of this equipment either has been deployed to completed projects, projects under construction, or projects that are probable of being completed or has been sold to third parties. sales during 2019 resulted in gains totaling approximately $17 million. sales of renewable facility interests in may 2018, southern power completed the sale of a noncontrolling 33% equity interest in sp solar, a limited partnership indirectly owning substantially all of southern power's solar facilities, to global atlantic for approximately $1.2 billion. since southern power retained control of the limited partnership through its wholly-owned general partner, the sale was recorded as an ii-59 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report equity transaction. cash distributions from sp solar are allocated 67% to southern power and 33% to global atlantic in accordance with their partnership ownership interests. in december 2018, southern power completed the sale of a noncontrolling tax equity interest in sp wind, which owns a portfolio of eight operating wind facilities, to three financial investors for approximately $1.2 billion. the tax equity investors together will generally receive 40% of the cash distributions from available cash and will receive 99% of the tax attributes, including future ptcs. southern power consolidates each entity, as the primary beneficiary of the vie, since it controls the most significant activities, including operating and maintaining the assets. sales of natural gas and biomass plants in december 2018, southern power completed the sale of all of its equity interests in the florida plants to nextera energy for $203 million, including working capital adjustments. in contemplation of this sale transaction, southern power recorded an asset impairment charge of approximately $119 million ($89 million after tax) in may 2018. pre-tax net income for the florida plants was $49 million for the period from january 1, 2018 to december 4, 2018. on june 13, 2019, southern power completed the sale of its equity interests in plant nacogdoches, a 115-mw biomass facility located in nacogdoches county, texas, to austin energy, for a purchase price of approximately $461 million, including working capital adjustments. southern power recorded a gain of $23 million ($88 million after tax) on the sale. the pre-tax net income for plant nacogdoches was $13 million and $27 million for the period from january 1, 2019 to june 13, 2019 and for the year ended 2018, respectively. on january 17, 2020, southern power completed the sale of its equity interests in plant mankato (including the 385-mw expansion unit completed in may 2019) to a subsidiary of xcel for a purchase price of approximately $663 million, including estimated working capital adjustments. the sale resulted in a gain of approximately $39 million ( $23 million after tax) in 2020. pre-tax net income for plant mankato was $29 million and immaterial for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. the assets and liabilities of plant mankato are classified as held for sale as of december 31, 2019 and 2018. southern company gas in june 2018, southern company gas completed the stock sale of pivotal home solutions to american water enterprises llc. southern company gas and american water enterprises llc entered into a transition services agreement whereby southern company gas provided certain administrative and operational services through november 4, 2018. in july 2018, a southern company gas subsidiary, pivotal utility holdings, completed the sales of the assets of two of its natural gas distribution utilities, elizabethtown gas and elkton gas, to south jersey industries, inc. southern company gas and south jersey industries, inc. entered into transition services agreements whereby southern company gas will provide certain administrative and operational services through no later than july 31, 2020. in july 2018, southern company gas and its wholly-owned direct subsidiary, nui corporation, completed the stock sale of pivotal utility holdings, which primarily consisted of florida city gas, to nextera energy. southern company gas and nextera energy entered into a transition services agreement whereby southern company gas will provide certain administrative and operational services through no later than july 29, 2020. the southern company gas dispositions resulted in a net loss of $51 million in 2018, which includes $342 million of tax expense. the after-tax impacts of these dispositions included income tax expense on goodwill not deductible for tax purposes and for which a deferred tax liability had not been recorded previously. in addition, a goodwill impairment charge of $42 million was recorded during 2018 in contemplation of the sale of pivotal home solutions. the southern company gas dispositions materially decreased southern company gas' subsequent earnings and cash flows. for the year ended december 31, 2018, pre-tax earnings attributable to these dispositions were $297 million, which includes a $291 million gain on dispositions, net and a $42 million goodwill impairment. due to the seasonal nature of the natural gas business and other factors including, but not limited to, weather, regulation, competition, customer demand, and general economic conditions, these results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other period. on may 29, 2019, southern company gas sold its investment in triton, a cargo container leasing company. this disposition resulted in a pre-tax loss of $6 million and a net after-tax gain of $7 million as a result of reversing a $13 million federal income tax valuation allowance. on february 7, 2020, southern company gas entered into agreements with dominion modular lng holdings, inc. and dominion atlantic coast pipeline, llc for the sale of its interests in pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline, respectively, for an ii-60 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report aggregate purchase price of $165 million , including estimated working capital and timing adjustments. southern company gas may also receive two payments of $5 million each, contingent upon certain milestones related to pivotal lng being met by dominion modular lng holdings, inc. after the completion of the sale. based on the terms of these pending transactions, southern company gas recorded an asset impairment charge, exclusive of the contingent payments, for pivotal lng of approximately $24 million ( $17 million after tax) as of december 31, 2019. the completion of each transaction is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, among other customary closing conditions, the completion of the other transaction and, for the sale of the interest in atlantic coast pipeline, the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976. the transactions are expected to be completed in the first half of 2020; however, the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time. the assets and liabilities of pivotal lng and the interest in atlantic coast pipeline are classified as held for sale as of december 31, 2019. see notes 3, 7, and 15 to the financial statements under "southern company gas gas pipeline projects," "southern company gas equity method investments," and "southern company gas proposed sale of pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline," respectively, for additional information. environmental matters the southern company system's operations are regulated by state and federal environmental agencies through a variety of laws and regulations governing air, water, land, and other natural resources. the southern company system maintains comprehensive environmental compliance and ghg strategies to assess both current and upcoming requirements and compliance costs associated with these environmental laws and regulations. the costs required to comply with environmental laws and regulations and to achieve stated goals, including capital expenditures, operations and maintenance costs, and costs reflected in aro liabilities, may impact future electric generating unit retirement and replacement decisions, results of operations, cash flows, and/or financial condition. related costs may result from the installation of additional environmental controls, closure and monitoring of ccr facilities, unit retirements, or changing fuel sources for certain existing units, as well as related upgrades to the southern company system's transmission and distribution (electric and natural gas) systems. a major portion of these costs is expected to be recovered through retail and wholesale rates, including existing ratemaking and billing provisions. the ultimate impact of environmental laws and regulations and the ghg goals discussed herein will depend on various factors, such as state adoption and implementation of requirements, the availability and cost of any deployed technology, fuel prices, and the outcome of pending and/or future legal challenges. new or revised environmental laws and regulations could affect many areas of operations for the subsidiary registrants. the impact of any such changes cannot be determined at this time. environmental compliance costs could affect earnings if such costs cannot continue to be recovered on a timely basis in rates for the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities or through long-term wholesale agreements for the traditional electric operating companies and southern power. alabama power and mississippi power recover environmental compliance costs through separate mechanisms, rate cnp compliance and the eco plan, respectively. georgia power's base rates include an environmental compliance cost recovery (eccr) tariff that allows for the recovery of environmental compliance costs. the natural gas distribution utilities of southern company gas generally recover environmental remediation expenditures through rate mechanisms approved by their applicable state regulatory agencies. see notes 2 and 3 to the financial statements for additional information. southern power's ppas generally contain provisions that permit charging the counterparty with some of the new costs incurred as a result of changes in environmental laws and regulations. since southern power's units are newer natural gas and renewable generating facilities, costs associated with environmental compliance for these facilities have been less significant than for similarly situated coal or older natural gas generating facilities. environmental, natural resource, and land use concerns, including the applicability of air quality limitations, the potential presence of wetlands or threatened and endangered species, the availability of water withdrawal rights, uncertainties regarding impacts such as increased light or noise, and concerns about potential adverse health impacts can, however, increase the cost of siting and operating any type of future electric generating facility. the impact of such laws, regulations, and other considerations on southern power and subsequent recovery through ppa provisions cannot be determined at this time. further, increased costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity and natural gas, which could negatively affect results of operations, cash flows, and/or financial condition. additionally, many commercial and industrial customers may also be affected by existing and future environmental requirements, which for some may have the potential to affect their demand for electricity and natural gas. although the timing, requirements, and estimated costs could change as environmental laws and regulations are adopted or modified, as compliance plans are revised or updated, and as legal challenges to rules are initiated or completed, estimated capital ii-61 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report expenditures through 2024 based on the current environmental compliance strategy for the southern company system and the traditional electric operating companies are as follows: 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 total (in millions) southern company $ 223 $ 250 $ 244 $ 214 $ 131 $ 1,062 alabama power 80 77 82 97 103 439 georgia power 115 156 152 105 23 551 mississippi power 28 17 10 12 5 72 these estimates do not include any costs associated with potential regulation of ghg emissions. see " global climate issues " herein for additional information. the southern company system also anticipates substantial expenditures associated with ash pond closure and ground water monitoring under the ccr rule and related state rules, which are reflected in the applicable registrants' aro liabilities. see financial condition and liquidity " capital requirements " herein and note 6 to the financial statements for additional information. environmental laws and regulations air quality the southern company system reduced so 2 and no x air emissions by 98% and 88%, respectively, from 1990 to 2018. the southern company system reduced mercury air emissions by over 96% from 2005 to 2018. the epa finalized regional haze regulations in 2005 and 2017. these regulations require states, tribal governments, and various federal agencies to develop and implement plans to reduce pollutants that impair visibility and demonstrate reasonable progress toward the goal of restoring natural visibility conditions in certain areas, including national parks and wilderness areas. states are required to submit state implementation plans for the second ten-year planning period (2018 through 2028) by july 31, 2021. these plans could require further reductions in particulate matter, so 2 , and/or no x , which could result in increased compliance costs at affected electric generating units. water quality in 2014, the epa finalized requirements under section 316(b) of the clean water act (cwa) to regulate cooling water intake structures (cwis) to minimize their effects on fish and other aquatic life at existing power plants. the regulation requires plant-specific studies to determine applicable cwis changes to protect organisms. the southern company system is conducting these studies and currently anticipates applicable cwis changes may include fish-friendly cwis screens with fish return systems and minor additions of monitoring equipment at certain plants. the impact of this rule will depend on the outcome of these plant-specific studies, any additional protective measures required to be incorporated into each plant's national pollutant discharge elimination system (npdes) permit based on site-specific factors, and the outcome of any legal challenges. in 2015, the epa finalized the steam electric effluent limitations guidelines (elg) rule (2015 elg rule) that set national standards for wastewater discharges from new and existing steam electric generating units generating greater than 50 mws. the 2015 elg rule prohibits effluent discharges of certain waste streams and imposes stringent limits on flue gas desulfurization (scrubber) wastewater discharges. the 2015 technology-based limits and the ccr rule require extensive changes to existing ash and wastewater management systems or the installation and operation of new ash and wastewater management systems. compliance with the 2015 elg rule is expected to require capital expenditures and increased operational costs for the traditional electric operating companies' coal-fired electric generation. state environmental agencies will incorporate specific compliance applicability dates in the npdes permitting process for each elg waste stream. on november 22, 2019, the epa published a proposed rule that changes certain requirements in the 2015 elg rule, including adjusting compliance limits and providing certain exemptions for boilers that are expected to be retired by december 31, 2028 and for low utilization boilers (876,000 mwh/year or less). the proposal also extends the latest applicability date for flue gas desulfurization wastewater to december 31, 2025 but retains the latest applicability date of december 31, 2023 for bottom ash transport water. the impact of any changes to the 2015 elg rule will depend on the content of a new final rule, which the epa plans to finalize by august 2020, and the outcome of any legal challenges. coal combustion residuals in 2015, the epa finalized non-hazardous solid waste regulations for the disposal of ccr, including coal ash and gypsum, in landfills and surface impoundments (ash ponds) at active electric generating power plants. the ccr rule requires landfills and ii-62 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report ash ponds to be evaluated against a set of performance criteria and potentially closed if certain criteria are not met. closure of existing landfills and ash ponds requires installation of equipment and infrastructure to manage ccr in accordance with the ccr rule. in addition to the ccr rule, the states of alabama and georgia finalized state regulations regarding the handling of ccr within their respective states. the state of georgia received approval from the epa on its partial permit program implementing the state ccr permit program in lieu of the federal self-implementing rule in accordance with the water infrastructure improvements for the nation act. the state of alabama also submitted its state ccr program for the epa's review and approval. the state of mississippi has not yet developed a state ccr permit program. the epa is in the process of amending portions of the ccr rule. most recently, on december 2, 2019, the epa published a proposed rule that would require facilities to cease placement of both ccr and non-ccr waste in unlined surface impoundments as soon as technically feasible, no later than august 31, 2020. this proposed rule also includes extensions beyond august 31, 2020, provided that certain conditions are met. impacts of the proposed rule to the southern company system are expected to be limited, as the traditional electric operating companies and segco stopped sending coal ash from most of the generating units to unlined ponds in april 2019 and expect to stop sending coal ash from the remaining generating units within the timeframes and associated extensions allowed in the proposed rule. based on cost estimates for closure and monitoring of landfills and ash ponds pursuant to the ccr rule, the southern company system recorded/revised aros for each ccr unit in 2015 and has continued to update these cost estimates and aro liabilities in subsequent years. the traditional electric operating companies expect to continue updating these estimates periodically as additional information related to ash pond closure methodologies, schedules, and/or costs becomes available. alabama power anticipates increasing the aro for one of its ash ponds within the next nine months upon completion of a feasibility study and the related cost estimate, and the increase could be material. additionally, the closure designs and plans in the states of alabama and georgia are subject to approval by environmental regulatory agencies. absent continued recovery of aro costs through regulated rates, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition for southern company and the traditional electric operating companies could be materially impacted. see financial condition and liquidity " capital requirements " and future earnings potential " regulatory matters georgia power integrated resource plan " herein and note 6 to the financial statements for additional information. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. environmental remediation the southern company system must comply with environmental laws and regulations governing the handling and disposal of waste and releases of hazardous substances. under these various laws and regulations, the southern company system could incur substantial costs to clean up affected sites. the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas conduct studies to determine the extent of any required cleanup and have recognized the estimated costs to clean up known impacted sites in their financial statements. amounts for cleanup and ongoing monitoring costs were not material for any year presented. the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities in illinois and georgia (which represent substantially all of southern company gas' accrued remediation costs) have all received authority from their respective state pscs or other applicable state regulatory agencies to recover approved environmental compliance costs through regulatory mechanisms. these regulatory mechanisms are adjusted annually or as necessary within limits approved by the state pscs or other applicable state regulatory agencies. the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas may be liable for some or all required cleanup costs for additional sites that may require environmental remediation. see note 3 to the financial statements under " environmental remediation " for additional information. global climate issues on july 8, 2019, the epa published the final affordable clean energy rule (ace rule) to repeal and replace the cpp. the ace rule requires states to develop unit-specific co 2 emission rate standards for existing coal-fired units based on heat-rate efficiency improvements. the ace rule is being challenged in the d.c. circuit court of appeals and georgia power is an intervenor in the litigation in support of the rule, as are other industry parties. the ultimate impact of the ace rule to the southern company system will depend on state implementation plan requirements and the outcome of associated legal challenges and cannot be determined at this time. additional ghg policies, including legislation, may emerge in the future requiring the united states to transition to a lower ghg emitting economy; however, associated impacts are currently unknown. the southern company system has transitioned from an electric generating mix of 70% coal and 15% natural gas in 2007 to a mix of 22% coal and 52% natural gas in 2019 , along with over 8,300 mws of renewable resources. this transition has been supported in part by the southern company system retiring over 5,600 mws of coal- and oil-fired generating capacity since 2010 and converting over 3,400 mws of generating capacity from coal to natural gas since 2015. in addition, southern company gas has replaced approximately 5,600 miles of bare steel and ii-63 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report cast-iron pipe, resulting in removal of approximately 2.5 million metric tons of ghg from its natural gas distribution system since 1998. the following table provides the registrants' 2018 and preliminary 2019 ghg emissions based on ownership or financial control of facilities: 2018 preliminary 2019 (in million metric tons of co 2 equivalent) southern company (a)(b) 102 88 alabama power 36 32 georgia power 30 27 mississippi power 8 9 southern power (b) 14 13 southern company gas (b) 1 1 (a) includes non-registrant subsidiaries. (b) the 2018 and preliminary 2019 amounts include ghg emissions attributable to disposed assets through the date of the applicable disposition. see note 15 to the financial statements for additional information regarding disposition activities. based on the preliminary 2019 amount above, the southern company system has achieved an estimated ghg emission reduction of 44% since 2007. in april 2018, southern company established an intermediate goal of a 50% reduction in carbon emissions from 2007 levels by 2030 and a long-term goal of low- to no-carbon operations by 2050. the southern company system's ability to achieve these goals depends on many external factors, including supportive national energy policies, low natural gas prices, and the development, deployment, and advancement of relevant energy technologies. the southern company system expects to continue cost-effectively growing its renewable energy portfolio, optimizing technology advancements to modernize its transmission and distribution systems, increasing the use of natural gas for generation, completing plant vogtle units 3 and 4, investing in energy efficiency, and continuing research and development efforts focused on technologies to lower ghg emissions. the southern company system is also evaluating methods of removing carbon from the atmosphere. regulatory matters alabama power alabama power 's revenues from regulated retail operations are collected through various rate mechanisms subject to the oversight of the alabama psc. alabama power currently recovers its costs from the regulated retail business primarily through rate rse, rate cnp, rate ecr, and rate ndr. in addition, the alabama psc issues accounting orders to address current events impacting alabama power. see note 2 to the financial statements under " alabama power " for additional information regarding alabama power's rate mechanisms and accounting orders. petition for certificate of convenience and necessity on september 6, 2019, alabama power filed a petition for a ccn with the alabama psc for authorization to procure additional generating capacity through the turnkey construction of a new combined cycle facility and long-term contracts for the purchase of power from others, both as more fully described below, as well as the autauga combined cycle acquisition. in addition, alabama power will pursue approximately 200 mws of certain demand side management and distributed energy resource programs. this filing was predicated on the results of alabama power's 2019 irp provided to the alabama psc, which identified an approximately 2,400 -mw resource need for alabama power, driven by the need for additional winter reserve capacity. see note 15 to the financial statements under " alabama power " for additional information regarding the autauga combined cycle acquisition. the procurement of these resources is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, among other customary conditions, approval by the alabama psc. the completion of the autauga combined cycle acquisition is also subject to approval by the ferc. alabama power expects to obtain all regulatory approvals by the end of the third quarter 2020. on may 8, 2019, alabama power entered into an agreement for engineering, procurement, and construction with mitsubishi hitachi power systems americas, inc. and black &amp; veatch construction, inc. to construct an approximately 720 -mw combined cycle facility at plant barry (plant barry unit 8), which is expected to be placed in service by the end of 2023. ii-64 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report the capital investment associated with the construction of plant barry unit 8 and the autauga combined cycle acquisition is currently estimated to total approximately $1.1 billion . alabama power entered into additional long-term ppas totaling approximately 640 mws of generating capacity consisting of approximately 240 mws of combined cycle generation expected to begin later in 2020 and approximately 400 mws of solar generation coupled with battery energy storage systems (solar/battery systems) expected to begin in 2022 through 2024. the terms of the agreements for the solar/battery systems permit alabama power to use the energy and retire the associated renewable energy credits (rec) in service of customers or to sell recs, separately or bundled with energy. upon certification, alabama power expects to recover costs associated with plant barry unit 8 pursuant to its rate cnp new plant. additionally, alabama power expects to recover costs associated with the autauga combined cycle acquisition through the inclusion in rate rse of revenues from the existing power sales agreement and, on expiration of that agreement, pursuant to rate cnp new plant. the recovery of costs associated with laws, regulations, and other such mandates directed at the utility industry are expected to be recovered through rate cnp compliance. alabama power expects to recover the capacity-related costs associated with the ppas through its rate cnp ppa. in addition, fuel and energy-related costs are expected to be recovered through rate ecr. any remaining costs associated with the autauga combined cycle acquisition and plant barry unit 8 will be incorporated through the annual filing of rate rse. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. construction work in progress accounting order on october 1, 2019, the alabama psc acknowledged that alabama power would begin certain limited preparatory activities associated with plant barry unit 8 construction to meet the target in-service date by authorizing alabama power to record the related costs as cwip prior to the issuance of an order on the ccn petition. should a ccn not be granted and alabama power does not proceed with the related construction of plant barry unit 8, alabama power may transfer those costs and any costs that directly result from the non-issuance of the ccn to a regulatory asset which would be amortized over a five-year period. if the balance of incurred costs reaches 5% of the estimated in-service cost of the total project prior to issuance of an order on the ccn petition, alabama power will confer with the alabama psc regarding the appropriateness of additional authorization. the sierra club subsequently filed a petition for reconsideration of the accounting order. the alabama psc voted to deny the petition for reconsideration on january 7, 2020. rate rse the alabama psc has adopted rate rse that provides for periodic annual adjustments based upon alabama power's projected weighted common equity return (wcer) compared to an allowable range. rate rse adjustments are based on forward-looking information for the applicable upcoming calendar year. rate rse adjustments for any two-year period, when averaged together, cannot exceed 4.0% and any annual adjustment is limited to 5.0%. when the projected wcer is under the allowed range, there is an adjusting point of 5.98% and eligibility for a performance-based adder of seven basis points, or 0.07%, to the wcer adjusting point if alabama power (i) has an "a" credit rating equivalent with at least one of the recognized rating agencies or (ii) is in the top one-third of a designated customer value benchmark survey. if alabama power's actual retail return is above the allowed wcer range, the excess will be refunded to customers unless otherwise directed by the alabama psc; however, there is no provision for additional customer billings should the actual retail return fall below the wcer range. prior to january 2019, retail rates remained unchanged when the wcer range was between 5.75% and 6.21%. in may 2018, the alabama psc approved modifications to rate rse and other commitments designed to position alabama power to address the growing pressure on its credit quality resulting from the tax reform legislation, without increasing retail rates under rate rse in the near term. alabama power plans to reduce growth in total debt by increasing equity, with corresponding reductions in debt issuances, thereby de-leveraging its capital structure. alabama power's goal is to achieve an equity ratio of approximately 55% by the end of 2025. at december 31, 2019, alabama power's equity ratio was approximately 50%. the approved modifications to rate rse began for billings in january 2019. the modifications include reducing the top of the allowed wcer range from 6.21% to 6.15% and modifications to the refund mechanism applicable to prior year actual results. the modifications to the refund mechanism allow alabama power to retain a portion of the revenue that causes the actual wcer for a given year to exceed the allowed range. generally, during a year without a rate rse upward adjustment, if alabama power's actual wcer is between 6.15% and 7.65%, customers will receive 25% of the amount between 6.15% and 6.65%, 40% of the amount between 6.65% and 7.15%, and 75% of the amount between 7.15% and 7.65%. customers will receive all amounts in excess of an actual wcer of 7.65%. during a year ii-65 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report with a rate rse upward adjustment, if alabama power's actual wcer exceeds 6.15%, customers receive 50% of the amount between 6.15% and 6.90% and all amounts in excess of an actual wcer of 6.90%. in conjunction with these modifications to rate rse, in may 2018, alabama power consented to a moratorium on any upward adjustments under rate rse for 2019 and 2020 and to return $50 million to customers through bill credits in 2019. on november 27, 2019, alabama power made its required annual rate rse submission to the alabama psc of projected data for calendar year 2020. projected earnings were within the specified range; therefore, retail rates under rate rse remain unchanged for 2020. during 2019, alabama power provided to the alabama psc and the alabama office of the attorney general information related to the operation and utilization of rate rse, in accordance with the rules governing the operation of rate rse. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. at december 31, 2019, alabama power's wcer exceeded 6.15%, resulting in alabama power establishing a current regulatory liability of $53 million for rate rse refunds, which will be refunded to customers through bill credits in april 2020. rate cnp new plant rate cnp new plant allows for recovery of alabama power's retail costs associated with newly developed or acquired certificated generating facilities placed into retail service. no adjustments to rate cnp new plant occurred during the period 2017 through 2019. see note 2 to the financial statements under "alabama power petition for certificate of convenience and necessity " for additional information. rate cnp ppa rate cnp ppa allows for the recovery of alabama power's retail costs associated with certificated ppas. no adjustments to rate cnp ppa occurred during the period 2017 through 2019 and no adjustment is expected for 2020. rate cnp compliance rate cnp compliance allows for the recovery of alabama power's retail costs associated with laws, regulations, and other such mandates directed at the utility industry involving the environment, security, reliability, safety, sustainability, or similar considerations impacting alabama power's facilities or operations. rate cnp compliance is based on forward-looking information and provides for the recovery of these costs pursuant to factors that are calculated and submitted to the alabama psc by december 1 with rates effective for the following calendar year. compliance costs to be recovered include operations and maintenance expenses, depreciation, and a return on certain invested capital. revenues for rate cnp compliance, as recorded on the financial statements, are adjusted for differences in actual recoverable costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. accordingly, changes in the billing factor will have no significant effect on southern company's or alabama power's revenues or net income, but will affect annual cash flow. changes in rate cnp compliance-related operations and maintenance expenses and depreciation generally will have no effect on net income. on november 27, 2019, alabama power submitted calculations associated with its cost of complying with governmental mandates, as provided under rate cnp compliance. the filing reflected a projected over recovered retail revenue requirement for governmental mandates, which resulted in a rate decrease of approximately $68 million that became effective for the billing month of january 2020. rate ecr rate ecr recovers alabama power's retail energy costs based on an estimate of future energy costs and the current over or under recovered balance. revenues recognized under rate ecr and recorded on the financial statements are adjusted for the difference in actual recoverable fuel costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. the difference in the recoverable fuel costs and amounts billed gives rise to the over or under recovered amounts recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities. alabama power, along with the alabama psc, continually monitors the over or under recovered cost balance to determine whether an adjustment to billing rates is required. changes in the rate ecr factor have no significant effect on southern company's or alabama power's net income but will impact operating cash flows. the alabama psc may approve billing rates under rate ecr of up to 5.910 cents per kwh. on december 3, 2019, the alabama psc approved a decrease to rate ecr from 2.353 to 2.160 cents per kwh, equal to 1.82% , or approximately $102 million annually, effective january 1, 2020. the rate will adjust to 5.910 cents per kwh in january 2021 absent a further order from the alabama psc. ii-66 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report tax reform accounting order in may 2018, the alabama psc approved an accounting order that authorized alabama power to defer the benefits of federal excess deferred income taxes associated with the tax reform legislation for the year ended december 31, 2018 as a regulatory liability and to use up to $30 million of such deferrals to offset under recovered amounts under rate ecr. the final excess deferred tax liability for the year ended december 31, 2018 totaled approximately $69 million , of which $30 million was used to offset the rate ecr under recovered balance. on december 3, 2019, the alabama psc issued an order authorizing alabama power to apply the remaining deferred balance of approximately $39 million to increase the balance in the ndr. see " rate ndr " herein and note 10 to the financial statements under " current and deferred income taxes " for additional information. plant greene county alabama power jointly owns plant greene county with an affiliate, mississippi power. see note 5 to the financial statements under " joint ownership agreements " for additional information regarding the joint ownership agreement. on december 31, 2019, mississippi power updated its proposed reserve margin plan (rmp), originally filed in august 2018 with the mississippi psc. the rmp proposed a four-year acceleration of the retirement of plant greene county units 1 and 2 to the third quarter 2021 and the third quarter 2022, respectively. mississippi power's proposed plant greene county unit retirements would require the completion of proposed transmission and system reliability improvements, as well as agreement by alabama power. alabama power will continue to monitor the status of mississippi power's proposed rmp and associated regulatory process as well as the proposed transmission and system reliability improvements. alabama power will review all the facts and circumstances and will evaluate all its alternatives prior to reaching a final determination on the ongoing operations of plant greene county. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. rate ndr based on an order from the alabama psc, alabama power maintains a reserve for operations and maintenance expenses to cover the cost of damages from major storms to its transmission and distribution facilities. the order approves a separate monthly rate ndr charge to customers consisting of two components. the first component is intended to establish and maintain a reserve balance for future storms and is an on-going part of customer billing. when the reserve balance falls below $50 million , a reserve establishment charge will be activated (and the on-going reserve maintenance charge concurrently suspended) until the reserve balance reaches $75 million . the second component of the rate ndr charge is intended to allow recovery of any existing deferred storm-related operations and maintenance costs and any future reserve deficits over a 24 -month period. the alabama psc order gives alabama power authority to record a deficit balance in the ndr when costs of storm damage exceed any established reserve balance. absent further alabama psc approval, the maximum total rate ndr charge consisting of both components is $10 per month per non-residential customer account and $5 per month per residential customer account. alabama power has the authority, based on an order from the alabama psc, to accrue certain additional amounts as circumstances warrant. the order allows for reliability-related expenditures to be charged against the additional accruals when the ndr balance exceeds $75 million. alabama power may designate a portion of the ndr to reliability-related expenditures as a part of an annual budget process for the following year or during the current year for identified unbudgeted reliability-related expenditures that are incurred. accruals that have not been designated can be used to offset storm charges. additional accruals to the ndr enhance alabama power's ability to mitigate the financial effects of future natural disasters, promote system reliability, and offset costs retail customers would otherwise bear. as discussed herein under "tax reform accounting order," in accordance with an alabama psc order issued on december 3, 2019, alabama power applied the remaining excess deferred income tax regulatory liability balance of approximately $39 million to increase the balance in the ndr. alabama power also accrued an additional $84 million to the ndr in december 2019 resulting in an accumulated balance of $150 million at december 31, 2019. of this amount, alabama power designated $37 million to be applied to budgeted reliability-related expenditures for 2020, which is included in other regulatory liabilities, current. the remaining ndr balance of $113 million is included in other regulatory liabilities, deferred on the balance sheet. in december 2017, the reserve maintenance charge was suspended and the reserve establishment charge was activated and collected approximately $16 million annually through 2019. effective with the march 2020 billings, the reserve establishment charge will be suspended and the reserve maintenance charge will be activated as a result of the ndr balance exceeding $75 million. alabama power expects to collect approximately $5 million in 2020 and $3 million annually thereafter unless the ndr balance falls below $50 million. as revenue from the rate ndr charge is recognized, an equal amount of operations and maintenance expenses related to the ndr will also be recognized. as a result, the rate ndr charge will not have an effect on net income but will impact operating cash flows. ii-67 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report environmental accounting order based on an order from the alabama psc (environmental accounting order), alabama power is allowed to establish a regulatory asset to record the unrecovered investment costs, including the unrecovered plant asset balance and the unrecovered costs associated with site removal and closure associated with future unit retirements caused by environmental regulations. the regulatory asset is being amortized and recovered over the affected unit's remaining useful life, as established prior to the decision regarding early retirement through rate cnp compliance. on april 15, 2019, alabama power retired plant gorgas units 8, 9, and 10 and reclassified approximately $654 million of the unrecovered asset balances to regulatory assets, which are being recovered over the units' remaining useful lives, the latest being through 2037, as established prior to the decision to retire. at december 31, 2019, the related regulatory assets totaled $649 million . additionally, approximately $700 million of net capitalized asset retirement costs were reclassified to a regulatory asset in accordance with accounting guidance provided by the alabama psc. the asset retirement costs are being recovered through 2055. see note 2 to the financial statements under "alabama power" and note 6 to the financial statements for additional information. georgia power georgia power's revenues from regulated retail operations are collected through various rate mechanisms subject to the oversight of the georgia psc. georgia power currently recovers its costs from the regulated retail business through an alternate rate plan, which includes traditional base tariffs, demand-side management (dsm) tariffs, the eccr tariff, and municipal franchise fee (mff) tariffs. in addition, financing costs on certified construction costs of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are being collected through the nccr tariff and fuel costs are collected through a separate fuel cost recovery tariff. see note 2 to the financial statements under " georgia power rate plans ," " fuel cost recovery ," and " nuclear construction " for additional information. rate plans 2019 arp on december 17, 2019, the georgia psc voted to approve the 2019 arp, under which georgia power increased its rates on january 1, 2020 and will increase rates annually for 2021 and 2022 as detailed below based on compliance filings to be made at least 90 days prior to the effective date. georgia power will recover estimated increases through its existing tariffs as follows: tariff 2020 2021 2022 (in millions) traditional base $ $ 120 $ 192 eccr (a) 318 55 184 dsm 12 1 1 mff 12 4 9 total (b) $ 342 $ 181 $ 386 (a) effective january 1, 2020, ccr aros will be recovered through the eccr tariff. see "integrated resource plan" herein for additional information on recovery of compliance costs for ccr aros. (b) totals may not add due to rounding. further, under the 2019 arp, georgia power's retail roe is set at 10.50% , and earnings will be evaluated against a retail roe range of 9.50% to 12.00% . the georgia psc also approved an increase in the retail equity ratio to 56% from 55% . any retail earnings above 12.00% will be shared, with 40% being applied to reduce regulatory assets, 40% directly refunded to customers, and the remaining 20% retained by georgia power. there will be no recovery of any earnings shortfall below 9.50% on an actual basis. however, if at any time during the term of the 2019 arp, georgia power projects that its retail earnings will be below 9.50% for any calendar year, it could petition the georgia psc for implementation of the interim cost recovery (icr) tariff to adjust georgia power's retail rates to achieve a 9.50% roe. the georgia psc would have 90 days to rule on georgia power's request. the icr tariff would expire at the earlier of january 1, 2023 or the end of the calendar year in which the icr tariff becomes effective. in lieu of requesting implementation of an icr tariff, or if the georgia psc chooses not to implement the icr tariff, georgia power may file a full rate case. additionally, under the 2019 arp and pursuant to the sharing mechanism approved in the 2013 arp whereby two-thirds of any earnings above the top of the allowed roe range are shared with georgia power's customers, (i) georgia power used 50% (approximately $50 million ) of the customer share of earnings above the band in 2018 to reduce regulatory assets and 50% ii-68 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report (approximately $50 million ) will be refunded to customers in 2020 and (ii) georgia power will forgo its share of 2019 earnings in excess of the earnings band so that 50% (approximately $60 million ) of all earnings over the 2019 band will be refunded to customers and 50% (approximately $60 million ) were used to reduce regulatory assets. except as provided above, georgia power will not file for a general base rate increase while the 2019 arp is in effect. georgia power is required to file a general base rate case by july 1, 2022, in response to which the georgia psc would be expected to determine whether the 2019 arp should be continued, modified, or discontinued. 2013 arp pursuant to the terms and conditions of a settlement agreement related to southern company's acquisition of southern company gas approved by the georgia psc in 2016, the 2013 arp continued in effect until december 31, 2019. furthermore, through december 31, 2019, georgia power retained its merger savings, net of transition costs, as defined in the settlement agreement; through december 31, 2022, such net merger savings will be shared on a 60 / 40 basis with customers; thereafter, all merger savings will be retained by customers. there were no changes to georgia power's traditional base tariffs, eccr tariff, dsm tariffs, or mff tariffs in 2017, 2018, or 2019. under the 2013 arp, georgia power's retail roe was set at 10.95% and earnings were evaluated against a retail roe range of 10.00% to 12.00% . two-thirds of any earnings above 12.00% were to be directly refunded to customers, with the remaining one-third retained by georgia power. on february 5, 2019, the georgia psc approved a settlement between georgia power and the staff of the georgia psc under which georgia power's retail roe for 2017 was stipulated to exceed 12.00% and georgia power reduced certain regulatory assets by approximately $4 million in lieu of providing refunds to retail customers. in 2019 and 2018, georgia power's retail roe exceeded 12.00% and, under the modified sharing mechanism pursuant to the 2019 arp, georgia power has reduced regulatory assets by a total of approximately $110 million and expects to refund a total of approximately $110 million to customers, subject to review and approval by the georgia psc. see "2019 arp" and "integrated resource plan" herein for additional information. tax reform settlement agreement in april 2018, the georgia psc approved the georgia power tax reform settlement agreement. to reflect the federal income tax rate reduction impact of the tax reform legislation, georgia power issued bill credits of approximately $95 million and $130 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, and is issuing bill credits of approximately $105 million in february 2020, for a total of $330 million . in addition, georgia power deferred as a regulatory liability (i) the revenue equivalent of the tax expense reduction resulting from legislation lowering the georgia state income tax rate from 6.00% to 5.75% in 2019 and (ii) the entire benefit of federal and state excess accumulated deferred income taxes. at december 31, 2019, the related regulatory liability balance totaled $659 million , which is being amortized over a three -year period ending december 31, 2022 in accordance with the 2019 arp. to address some of the negative cash flow and credit quality impacts of the tax reform legislation, the georgia psc also approved an increase in georgia power's retail equity ratio to the lower of (i) georgia power's actual common equity weight in its capital structure or (ii) 55% , until the georgia psc approved the 2019 arp. benefits from reduced federal income tax rates in excess of the amounts refunded to customers were retained by georgia power to cover the carrying costs of the incremental equity in 2018 and 2019. see " 2019 arp " herein for additional information. integrated resource plan see " environmental matters " herein for additional information regarding proposed and final epa rules and regulations, including revisions to elg for steam electric power plants and additional regulations of ccr and co 2 . on july 16, 2019, the georgia psc voted to approve georgia power's modified triennial irp (georgia power 2019 irp). in the georgia power 2019 irp, the georgia psc approved the decertification and retirement of plant hammond units 1 through 4 ( 840 mws) and plant mcintosh unit 1 ( 142.5 mws) effective july 29, 2019. in accordance with the 2019 arp, the remaining net book values at december 31, 2019 of $488 million for the plant hammond units are being recovered over a period equal to the respective unit's remaining useful life, which varies between 2024 and 2035, and $30 million for plant mcintosh unit 1 is being recovered over a three -year period ending december 31, 2022. in addition, approximately $20 million of related unusable materials and supplies inventory balances and approximately $295 million of net capitalized asset retirement costs were reclassified to a regulatory asset. in accordance with the modifications to the earnings sharing mechanism approved in the 2019 arp, georgia power fully amortized the regulatory assets associated with these unusable materials and supplies inventory ii-69 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report balances as well as a regulatory asset of approximately $50 million related to costs for a future generation site in stewart county, georgia. see "rate plans 2019 arp" herein for additional information. also in the georgia power 2019 irp, the georgia psc approved georgia power's proposed environmental compliance strategy associated with ash pond and certain landfill closures and post-closure care in compliance with the ccr rule and the related state rule. in the 2019 arp, the georgia psc approved recovery of the estimated under recovered balance of these compliance costs at december 31, 2019 over a three -year period ending december 31, 2022 and recovery of estimated compliance costs for 2020, 2021, and 2022 over three -year periods ending december 31, 2022, 2023, and 2024, respectively, with recovery of construction contingency beginning in the year following actual expenditure. the under recovered balance at december 31, 2019 was $175 million and the estimated compliance costs expected to be incurred in 2020, 2021, and 2022 are $265 million , $290 million , and $390 million , respectively. the eccr tariff is expected to be revised for actual expenditures and updated estimates through future annual compliance filings. see " environmental matters environmental laws and regulations coal combustion residuals " and financial condition and liquidity " capital requirements " and " contractual obligations " herein and note 6 to the financial statements for additional information regarding georgia power's aros. on february 4, 2020, the georgia psc voted to deny a motion for reconsideration filed by the sierra club regarding the georgia psc's decision in the 2019 arp allowing georgia power to recover compliance costs for ccr aros. additionally, the georgia psc rejected a request to certify approximately 25 mws of capacity at plant scherer unit 3 for the retail jurisdiction beginning january 1, 2020 following the expiration of a wholesale ppa. georgia power may offer such capacity in the wholesale market or to the retail jurisdiction in a future irp. the georgia psc also approved georgia power to (i) issue requests for proposals (rfp) for capacity beginning in 2022 or 2023 and in 2026, 2027, or 2028; (ii) procure up to an additional 2,210 mws of renewable resources through competitive rfps; and (iii) invest in a portfolio of up to 80 mws of battery energy storage technologies. fuel cost recovery georgia power has established fuel cost recovery rates approved by the georgia psc. georgia power is scheduled to file its next fuel case no later than march 16, 2020, with new rates, if any, to be effective june 1, 2020. georgia power continues to be allowed to adjust its fuel cost recovery rates under an interim fuel rider prior to the next fuel case if the under or over recovered fuel balance exceeds $200 million . at december 31, 2019 , georgia power's over recovered fuel balance was $73 million . georgia power's fuel cost recovery mechanism includes costs associated with a natural gas hedging program, as revised and approved by the georgia psc, allowing the use of an array of derivative instruments within a 48 -month time horizon. fuel cost recovery revenues as recorded on the financial statements are adjusted for differences in actual recoverable fuel costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. accordingly, changes in the billing factor will not have a significant effect on southern company's or georgia power's revenues or net income but will affect operating cash flows. storm damage recovery beginning january 1, 2020, georgia power is recovering $213 million annually through december 31, 2022, as provided in the 2019 arp, for incremental operations and maintenance costs of damage from major storms to its transmission and distribution facilities. at december 31, 2019 , the balance in the regulatory asset related to storm damage was $410 million . the rate of storm damage cost recovery is expected to be adjusted in future regulatory proceedings as necessary. as a result of this regulatory treatment, costs related to storms are not expected to have a material impact on southern company's or georgia power's financial statements. see note 2 to the financial statements under " georgia power storm damage recovery " for additional information regarding georgia power's storm damage reserve. mississippi power mississippi power's rates and charges for service to retail customers are subject to the regulatory oversight of the mississippi psc. mississippi power's rates are a combination of base rates and several separate cost recovery clauses for specific categories of costs. these separate cost recovery clauses address such items as fuel and purchased power, energy efficiency programs, ad valorem taxes, property damage, and the costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations. costs not addressed through one of the specific cost recovery clauses are expected to be recovered through mississippi power's base rates. see note 2 to the financial statements under " mississippi power " for additional information. ii-70 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report 2019 base rate case on november 26, 2019, mississippi power filed the mississippi power 2019 base rate case with the mississippi psc. the filing includes a requested annual decrease in mississippi power's retail rates of $5.8 million , or 0.6% , which is driven primarily by changes in the amortization rates of certain regulatory assets and liabilities and cost reductions, partially offset by an increase in mississippi power's requested return on investment and depreciation associated with the filing of an updated depreciation study. the revenue requirements included in the filing are based on a projected test year period of january 1, 2020 through december 31, 2020, a 53% average equity ratio, and a 7.728% return on investment. the filing reflects the elimination of separate rates for costs associated with the kemper county energy facility and energy efficiency initiatives; those costs are proposed to be included in the pep , eco plan, and ad valorem tax adjustment factor, as applicable. on december 10, 2019, the mississippi psc suspended the base rate case filing through no later than march 25, 2020. if no further action is taken by the mississippi psc, the proposed rates may be effective beginning on march 26, 2020 . the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. operations review in august 2018, the mississippi psc began an operations review of mississippi power, for which the final report is expected prior to the conclusion of the mississippi power 2019 base rate case. the review includes, but is not limited to, a comparative analysis of its costs, its cost recovery framework, and ways in which it may streamline management operations for the reasonable benefit of ratepayers. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. reserve margin plan on december 31, 2019, mississippi power updated its proposed rmp , originally filed in august 2018, as required by the mississippi psc. in 2018, mississippi power had proposed alternatives to reduce its reserve margin and lower or avoid operating costs, with the most economic alternatives being the two-year and seven-year acceleration of the retirement of plant watson units 4 and 5, respectively, to the first quarter 2022 and the four-year acceleration of the retirement of plant greene county units 1 and 2 to the third quarter 2021 and the third quarter 2022, respectively. the december 2019 update noted that plant daniel units 1 and 2 currently have long-term economics similar to plant watson unit 5. the plant greene county unit retirements would require the completion by alabama power of proposed transmission and system reliability improvements, as well as agreement by alabama power. the rmp filing also states that, in the event the mississippi psc ultimately approves an alternative that includes an accelerated retirement, mississippi power would require authorization to defer in a regulatory asset for future recovery the remaining net book value of the units at the time of retirement. a decision by the mississippi psc that does not include recovery of the remaining book value of any generating units retired could have a material impact on southern company's and mississippi power's financial statements. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. see note 3 to the financial statements under " other matters mississippi power " for additional information on plant daniel units 1 and 2. performance evaluation plan mississippi power's retail base rates generally are set under the pep, a rate plan approved by the mississippi psc. in recognition that mississippi power's long-term financial success is dependent upon how well it satisfies its customers' needs, pep includes performance indicators that directly tie customer service indicators to mississippi power's allowed roe. pep measures mississippi power's performance on a 10-point scale as a weighted average of results in three areas: average customer price, as compared to prices of other regional utilities (weighted at 40%); service reliability, measured in percentage of time customers had electric service (40%); and customer satisfaction, measured in a survey of residential customers (20%). typically, two pep filings are made for each calendar year: the pep projected filing, which is typically filed prior to the beginning of the year based on a projected revenue requirement, and the pep lookback filing, which is filed after the end of the year and allows for review of the actual revenue requirement compared to the projected filing. in february 2018, mississippi power revised its annual projected pep filing for 2018 to reflect the impacts of the tax reform legislation. the revised filing requested an increase of $26 million in annual revenues, based on a performance adjusted roe of 9.33% and an increased equity ratio of 55% . in july 2018, mississippi power and the mpus entered into a settlement agreement, which was approved by the mississippi psc in august 2018 (pep settlement agreement). rates under the pep settlement agreement became effective with the first billing cycle of september 2018. the pep settlement agreement provided for an increase of approximately $21.6 million in annual base retail revenues, which excluded certain compensation costs contested by the mpus, as well as approximately $2 million subsequently approved for recovery through the 2018 energy efficiency cost rider. under the pep settlement agreement, mississippi power deferred a portion of the contested compensation costs for 2018 and 2019 as a regulatory asset, which totaled $4 million as of december 31, 2019 and is included in other regulatory assets, ii-71 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report deferred on the balance sheet. the mississippi psc is expected to rule on the appropriate treatment for such costs in connection with the mississippi power 2019 base rate case. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. pursuant to the pep settlement agreement, mississippi power's performance-adjusted allowed roe is 9.31% and its allowed equity ratio is capped at 51% , pending further review by the mississippi psc. in lieu of the requested equity ratio increase, mississippi power retained $44 million of excess accumulated deferred income taxes resulting from the tax reform legislation until the conclusion of the mississippi power 2019 base rate case. further, mississippi power agreed to seek equity contributions sufficient to restore its equity ratio to 50% by december 31, 2018. since mississippi power's actual average equity ratio for 2018 was more than 1% lower than the 50% target, mississippi power deferred the corresponding difference in its revenue requirement of approximately $4 million as a regulatory liability for resolution in the mississippi power 2019 base rate case. pursuant to the pep settlement agreement, pep proceedings are suspended until after the conclusion of the mississippi power 2019 base rate case and mississippi power was not required to make any pep filings for regulatory years 2018, 2019, and 2020. energy efficiency on february 5, 2019, the mississippi psc issued an order approving mississippi power's energy efficiency cost rider 2019 compliance filing, which included a slight decrease in annual retail revenues, effective with the first billing cycle in march 2019. as part of the mississippi power 2019 base rate case, mississippi power has proposed that the energy efficiency cost rider be eliminated and those costs be included in the pep. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. environmental compliance overview plan in accordance with a 2011 accounting order from the mississippi psc, mississippi power has the authority to defer in a regulatory asset for future recovery all plant retirement- or partial retirement-related costs resulting from environmental regulations. the mississippi psc approved $41 million and $17 million of costs that were reclassified to regulatory assets associated with the fuel conversion of plant watson and plant greene county, respectively, for amortization over five -year periods ending in july 2021 and july 2022, respectively. in august 2018, the mississippi psc approved an annual increase in revenues related to the eco plan of approximately $17 million , effective with the first billing cycle for september 2018. this increase represented the maximum 2% annual increase in revenues and primarily related to the carryforward from the prior year. the increase was the result of mississippi psc approval of an agreement between mississippi power and the mpus to settle the 2018 eco plan filing (eco settlement agreement) and was sufficient to recover costs through 2019, including remaining amounts deferred from prior years along with the related carrying costs . in accordance with the eco settlement agreement, eco plan proceedings are suspended until after the conclusion of the mississippi power 2019 base rate case and mississippi power was not required to make any eco plan filings for 2018, 2019, and 2020, with any necessary adjustments reflected in the mississippi power 2019 base rate case. the eco settlement agreement contains the same terms as the pep settlement agreement described herein with respect to allowed roe and equity ratio. at december 31, 2019, mississippi power has recorded $2 million in other regulatory liabilities, deferred on the balance sheet related to the actual december 31, 2018 average equity ratio differential from target applicable to the eco plan. on october 24, 2019, the mississippi psc approved mississippi power's july 9, 2019 request for a cpcn to complete certain environmental compliance projects, primarily associated with the plant daniel coal units co-owned 50% with gulf power. the total estimated cost is approximately $125 million , with mississippi power's share of approximately $66 million being proposed for recovery through its eco plan. approximately $17 million of mississippi power's share is associated with ash pond closure and is reflected in mississippi power's aro liabilities. see note 6 to the financial statements for additional information on aros and note 3 to the financial statements under "other matters mississippi power" for additional information on gulf power's ownership in plant daniel. fuel cost recovery mississippi power annually establishes and is required to file for an adjustment to the retail fuel cost recovery factor that is approved by the mississippi psc. the mississippi psc approved decreases of $35 million and $24 million , effective in february 2019 and 2020, respectively. at december 31, 2019 and 2018, over recovered retail fuel costs included in other current liabilities on southern company's balance sheets and over recovered regulatory clause liabilities on mississippi power's balance sheets were approximately $23 million and $8 million , respectively. ii-72 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report mississippi power has wholesale mra and market based (mb) fuel cost recovery factors. effective with the first billing cycle for january 2019, the wholesale mra fuel rate increased $16 million annually and the wholesale mb fuel rate decreased by an immaterial amount. effective january 1, 2020, the wholesale mra fuel rate increased $1 million annually and the wholesale mb fuel rate decreased by an immaterial amount. at december 31, 2019 and 2018, over recovered wholesale mra fuel costs included in other current liabilities on southern company's balance sheets and over recovered regulatory clause liabilities on mississippi power's balance sheets were approximately $6 million . at december 31, 2019 and 2018, over/under recovered wholesale mb fuel costs included in the balance sheets were immaterial. mississippi power's operating revenues are adjusted for differences in actual recoverable fuel cost and amounts billed in accordance with the currently approved cost recovery rate. accordingly, changes in the billing factor should have no significant effect on mississippi power's revenues or net income but will affect operating cash flows. kemper county energy facility overview the kemper county energy facility was designed to utilize igcc technology with an expected output capacity of 582 mws and to be fueled by locally mined lignite (an abundant, lower heating value coal) from a mine owned by mississippi power and situated adjacent to the kemper county energy facility. schedule and cost estimate in 2012, the mississippi psc issued an order confirming the cpcn originally approved by the mississippi psc in 2010 authorizing the acquisition, construction, and operation of the kemper county energy facility. the order approved a construction cost cap of up to $2.88 billion , with recovery of prudently-incurred costs subject to approval by the mississippi psc. the kemper county energy facility was originally projected to be placed in service in may 2014. mississippi power placed the combined cycle and the associated common facilities portion of the kemper county energy facility in service in august 2014. the combined cycle and associated common facilities portions of the kemper county energy facility were dedicated as plant ratcliffe in april 2018. in june 2017, the mississippi psc stated its intent to issue an order, which occurred in july 2017, directing mississippi power to pursue a settlement under which the kemper county energy facility would be operated as a natural gas plant, rather than an igcc plant, and address all issues associated with the kemper county energy facility. the order established a new docket for the purpose of pursuing a global settlement of the related costs (kemper settlement docket). in june 2017, mississippi power notified the mississippi psc that it would begin a process to suspend operations and start-up activities on the gasifier portion of the kemper county energy facility, given the uncertainty as to its future. at the time of project suspension in june 2017, the total cost estimate for the kemper county energy facility was approximately $7.38 billion , including approximately $5.95 billion of costs subject to the construction cost cap, net of $137 million in additional grants from the doe received in april 2016. in the aggregate, mississippi power had recorded charges to income of $3.07 billion ( $1.89 billion after tax) as a result of changes in the cost estimate above the cost cap for the kemper igcc through may 2017. given the mississippi psc's stated intent regarding no further rate increase for the kemper county energy facility and the subsequent suspension, cost recovery of the gasifier portions became no longer probable; therefore, mississippi power recorded an additional charge to income in june 2017 of $2.8 billion ( $2.0 billion after tax), which included estimated costs associated with the gasification portions of the plant and lignite mine. during the third and fourth quarters of 2017, mississippi power recorded charges to income of $242 million ( $206 million after tax), including $164 million for ongoing project costs, estimated mine and gasifier-related costs, and certain termination costs during the suspension period prior to conclusion of the kemper settlement docket, as well as the charge associated with the kemper settlement agreement discussed below. in 2019, mississippi power recorded pre-tax and after-tax charges to income of $24 million , primarily associated with the expected close out of a related doe contract, as well as other abandonment and related closure costs and ongoing period costs, net of salvage proceeds, for the mine and gasifier-related assets. the after-tax amount for 2019 includes an adjustment related to the tax abandonment of the kemper igcc following the filing of the 2018 tax return. in 2018, mississippi power recorded pre-tax charges to income of $37 million ( $68 million benefit after tax), primarily associated with abandonment and related closure costs and ongoing period costs, net of salvage proceeds, for the mine and gasifier-related assets, as well as the impact of a change in the valuation allowance for the related state income tax nol carryforward. mississippi power expects to substantially complete mine reclamation activities in 2020 and dismantlement of the abandoned gasifier-related assets and site restoration activities are expected to be completed in 2024. the additional pre-tax p eriod costs associated with dismantlement and site restoration activities, including related costs for compliance and safety, aro accretion, ii-73 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report and property taxes, are estimated to total $17 million in 2020, $15 million to $16 million annually in 2021 through 2023, and $5 million in 2024. see note 10 to the financial statements for additional information. rate recovery in february 2018, the mississippi psc voted to approve a settlement agreement related to cost recovery for the kemper county energy facility among mississippi power, the mpus, and certain intervenors (kemper settlement agreement), which resolved all cost recovery issues, modified the cpcn to limit the kemper county energy facility to natural gas combined cycle operation, and provided for an annual revenue requirement of approximately $99.3 million for costs related to the kemper county energy facility, which included the impact of the tax reform legislation. the revenue requirement was based on (i) a fixed roe for 2018 of 8.6% excluding any performance adjustment, (ii) a roe for 2019 calculated in accordance with pep, excluding the performance adjustment, (iii) for future years, a performance-based roe calculated pursuant to pep, and (iv) amortization periods for the related regulatory assets and liabilities of eight years and six years, respectively. the revenue requirement also reflects a disallowance related to a portion of mississippi power's investment in the kemper county energy facility requested for inclusion in rate base, which was recorded in the fourth quarter 2017 as an additional charge to income of approximately $78 million ($85 million net of accumulated depreciation of $7 million) pre-tax ($48 million after tax). under the kemper settlement agreement, retail customer rates were reduced by approximately $26.8 million annually, effective with the first billing cycle of april 2018, and include no recovery for costs associated with the gasifier portion of the kemper county energy facility in 2018 or at any future date. on november 26, 2019, mississippi power filed the mississippi power 2019 base rate case, which reflects the elimination of separate rates for costs associated with the kemper county energy facility; these costs are proposed to be included in rates for pep, eco plan, and ad valorem tax adjustment factor, as applicable. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. lignite mine and co 2 pipeline facilities mississippi power owns the lignite mine and equipment and mineral reserves located around the kemper county energy facility site. the mine started commercial operation in june 2013. in connection with the kemper county energy facility construction, mississippi power also constructed a pipeline for the transport of captured co 2 . in 2010, mississippi power executed a management fee contract with liberty fuels company, llc (liberty fuels), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the north american coal corporation, which developed, constructed, and is responsible for the mining operations through the end of the mine reclamation. as the mining permit holder, liberty fuels has a legal obligation to perform mine reclamation and mississippi power has a contractual obligation to fund all reclamation activities. as a result of the abandonment of the kemper igcc, final mine reclamation began in 2018 and is expected to be substantially completed in 2020, with monitoring expected to continue through 2027. see note 6 to the financial statements for additional information. on december 31, 2019, mississippi power transferred ownership of the co 2 pipeline to an unrelated gas pipeline company, with no resulting impact on income. in conjunction with the transfer of the co 2 pipeline, the parties agreed to enter into a 15-year firm transportation agreement, which is expected to be signed by march 2020, providing for the conversion by the pipeline company of the co 2 pipeline to a natural gas pipeline to be used for the delivery of natural gas to plant ratcliffe. the agreement will be treated as a finance lease for accounting purposes upon commencement, which is expected to occur by august 2020. see note 9 to the financial statements for additional information. government grants in 2010, the doe, through a cooperative agreement with scs, agreed to fund $270 million of the kemper county energy facility through the grants awarded to the project by the doe under the clean coal power initiative round 2. in 2016, additional doe grants in the amount of $137 million were awarded to the kemper county energy facility. through december 31, 2018, mississippi power received total doe grants of $387 million , of which $382 million reduced the construction costs of the kemper county energy facility and $5 million reimbursed mississippi power for expenses associated with doe reporting. in december 2018, mississippi power filed with the doe its request for property closeout certification under the contract related to the $387 million of grants received. mississippi power expects to close out the doe contract related to the kemper county energy facility in 2020. in connection with the doe closeout discussions, on april 29, 2019, the civil division of the department of justice informed southern company and mississippi power of an investigation related to the kemper county energy facility. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time; however, it could have a material impact on southern company's and mississippi power's financial statements. ii-74 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report municipal and rural associations tariff mississippi power provides wholesale electric service to cooperative energy, east mississippi electric power association, and the city of collins, all located in southeastern mississippi, under a long-term, cost-based, ferc-regulated mra tariff. in 2017, mississippi power and cooperative energy executed, and the ferc accepted, a shared service agreement (ssa), as part of the mra tariff, under which mississippi power and cooperative energy will share in providing electricity to the cooperative energy delivery points under the tariff, effective january 1, 2018. the ssa may be cancelled by cooperative energy with 10 years notice after december 31, 2020. as of december 31, 2019, cooperative energy has the option to decrease its use of mississippi power's generation services under the mra tariff up to 2.5% annually, with required notice, up to a maximum total reduction of 11%, or approximately $9 million in cumulative annual base revenues. on may 7, 2019, the ferc accepted mississippi power's requested $3.7 million annual decrease in mra base rates effective january 1, 2019, as agreed upon in the mra settlement agreement, resolving all matters related to the kemper county energy facility, similar to the retail rate settlement agreement approved by the mississippi psc in february 2018, and reflecting the impacts of the tax reform legislation. cooperative energy power supply agreement effective april 1, 2018, mississippi power and cooperative energy amended and extended a previous power supply agreement through march 31, 2021, which was subsequently extended through may 31, 2021. the amendment increased the total capacity from 86 mws to 286 mws. cooperative energy also has a 10 -year network integration transmission service agreement (nitsa) with scs for transmission service to certain delivery points on mississippi power's transmission system through march 31, 2021. as a result of the psa amendment, cooperative energy and scs also amended the terms of the nitsa, which the ferc approved, to provide for the purchase of incremental transmission capacity from april 1, 2018 through march 31, 2021. southern company gas utility regulation and rate design the natural gas distribution utilities are subject to regulations and oversight by their respective state regulatory agencies. rates charged to customers vary according to customer class (residential, commercial, or industrial) and rate jurisdiction. these agencies approve rates designed to provide the opportunity to generate revenues to recover all prudently-incurred costs, including a return on rate base sufficient to pay interest on debt and provide a reasonable roe. rate base generally consists of the original cost of the utility plant in service, working capital, and certain other assets, less accumulated depreciation on the utility plant in service and net deferred income tax liabilities, and may include certain other additions or deductions. the natural gas market for atlanta gas light was deregulated in 1997. accordingly, marketers, rather than a traditional utility, sell natural gas to end-use customers in georgia and handle customer billing functions. the marketers file their rates monthly with the georgia psc. as a result of operating in a deregulated environment, atlanta gas light's role includes: distributing natural gas for marketers; constructing, operating, and maintaining the gas system infrastructure, including responding to customer service calls and leaks; reading meters and maintaining underlying customer premise information for marketers; and planning and contracting for capacity on interstate transportation and storage systems. atlanta gas light earns revenue by charging rates to its customers based primarily on monthly fixed charges that are set by the georgia psc and adjusted periodically. the marketers add these fixed charges when billing customers. this mechanism, called a straight-fixed-variable rate design, minimizes the seasonality of atlanta gas light's revenues since the monthly fixed charge is not volumetric or directly weather dependent. see " gram " and " prp " herein for additional information. with the exception of atlanta gas light, the earnings of the natural gas distribution utilities can be affected by customer consumption patterns that are largely a function of weather conditions and price levels for natural gas. specifically, customer demand substantially increases during the heating season when natural gas is used for heating purposes. southern company gas has various mechanisms, such as weather and revenue normalization mechanisms and weather derivative instruments, that limit exposure to weather changes within typical ranges in these utilities' respective service territories. with the exception of atlanta gas light, the natural gas distribution utilities are authorized by the relevant regulatory agencies in the states in which they serve to use natural gas cost recovery mechanisms that adjust rates to reflect changes in the wholesale ii-75 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report cost of natural gas and ensure recovery of all costs prudently incurred in purchasing natural gas for customers. natural gas cost recovery revenues are adjusted for differences in actual recoverable natural gas costs and amounts billed in current regulated rates. changes in the billing factor will not have a significant effect on southern company gas' revenues or net income, but will affect cash flows. since atlanta gas light does not sell natural gas directly to its end-use customers, it does not utilize a traditional natural gas cost recovery mechanism. however, atlanta gas light does maintain natural gas inventory for the marketers in georgia and recovers the cost through recovery mechanisms approved by the georgia psc specific to georgia's deregulated market. in addition to natural gas recovery mechanisms, there are other cost recovery mechanisms, such as regulatory riders, which vary by utility but allow recovery of certain costs, such as those related to infrastructure replacement programs as well as environmental remediation and energy efficiency plans. in traditional rate designs, utilities recover a significant portion of the fixed customer service and pipeline infrastructure costs based on assumed natural gas volumes used by customers. the utilities, including nicor gas beginning in november 2019, have decoupled regulatory mechanisms that southern company gas believes encourage conservation by separating the recoverable amount of these fixed costs from the amounts of natural gas used by customers. see note 2 to the financial statements under " southern company gas rate proceedings " for additional information. also see " construction programs southern company gas infrastructure replacement programs and capital projects " for additional information regarding infrastructure replacement programs at certain of the natural gas distribution utilities. the following table provides regulatory information for southern company gas' natural gas distribution utilities: nicor gas atlanta gas light virginia natural gas chattanooga gas authorized roe (a) 9.73% 10.25% 9.50% 9.80% authorized roe range (a) n/a 10.05% - 10.45% 9.00% - 10.00% n/a weather normalization mechanisms (b) decoupled, including straight-fixed-variable rates (c) regulatory infrastructure program rates (d) bad debt rider (e) energy efficiency plan (f) annual base rate adjustment mechanism (g) year of last rate decision 2019 2019 2018 2018 (a) atlanta gas light's authorized roe and roe range became effective on january 1, 2020. atlanta gas light's roe for 2019 was 10.75%. (b) regulatory mechanisms that allow recovery of costs in the event of unseasonal weather, but are not direct offsets to the potential impacts on earnings of weather and customer consumption. these mechanisms are designed to help stabilize operating results by increasing base rate amounts charged to customers when weather is warmer than normal and decreasing amounts charged when weather is colder than normal. (c) allows for recovery of fixed customer service costs separately from assumed natural gas volumes used by customers. on october 2, 2019, nicor gas received approval for a volume balancing adjustment, a revenue decoupling mechanism for residential customers that provides a monthly benchmark level of revenue per rate class for recovery. (d) programs that update or expand distribution systems and lng facilities. (e) the recovery (refund) of bad debt expense over (under) an established benchmark expense. nicor gas, virginia natural gas, and chattanooga gas recover the gas portion of bad debt expense through their purchased gas adjustment mechanisms. (f) recovery of costs associated with plans to achieve specified energy savings goals. (g) regulatory mechanism allowing annual adjustments to base rates up or down based on authorized roe and/or roe range. gram in december 2019, the georgia psc approved the continuation of gram as part of atlanta gas light's 2019 rate case order. various infrastructure programs previously authorized by the georgia psc, including the integrated vintage plastic replacement program (i-vpr) to replace aging plastic pipe and the integrated system reinforcement program (i-srp) to upgrade atlanta gas light's distribution system and lng facilities in georgia, continue under gram and the recovery of and return on the infrastructure program investments are included in annual base rate adjustments. the future expected costs to be recovered through rates related to allowed, but not incurred, costs are recognized in an unrecognized ratemaking amount that is not reflected on the balance sheets. this allowed cost is primarily the equity return on the capital investment under the infrastructure programs in place prior to gram. see "unrecognized ratemaking amounts" herein for additional information. the georgia psc reviews atlanta gas light's performance annually under gram. see " rate proceedings " herein for additional information. ii-76 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report pursuant to the gram approval, atlanta gas light and the staff of the georgia psc agreed to a variation of the integrated customer growth program to extend pipeline facilities to serve customers in areas without pipeline access and create new economic development opportunities in georgia. as a result, a new tariff was created, effective october 10, 2017, to provide up to $15 million annually for atlanta gas light to commit to strategic economic development projects. projects under this tariff must be approved by the georgia psc. prp atlanta gas light previously recovered prp costs through a prp surcharge established in 2015 to address recovery of the under recovered prp balance and the related carrying costs. effective january 2018, prp costs are being recovered through gram and base rates until the earlier of the full recovery of the under recovered amount or december 31, 2025. the under recovered balance at december 31, 2019 was $135 million , including $70 million of unrecognized equity return. see " rate proceedings " and " unrecognized ratemaking amounts " herein for additional information. rate proceedings nicor gas in january 2018, the illinois commission approved a $137 million increase in annual base rate revenues, including $93 million related to the recovery of investments under the investing in illinois program, effective in february 2018, based on a roe of 9.8% . in may 2018, the illinois commission approved nicor gas' rehearing request for revised base rates to incorporate the reduction in the federal income tax rate as a result of the tax reform legislation. the resulting decrease of approximately $44 million in annual base rate revenues became effective may 5, 2018. the benefits of the tax reform legislation from january 25, 2018 through may 4, 2018 were refunded to customers via bill credits and concluded in the second quarter 2019. in november 2018, nicor gas filed a general base rate case with the illinois commission. on october 2, 2019, the illinois commission approved a $168 million annual base rate increase effective october 8, 2019. the base rate increase included $65 million related to the recovery of program costs under the investing in illinois program and was based on a roe of 9.73% and an equity ratio of 54.2%. additionally, the illinois commission approved a volume balancing adjustment, a revenue decoupling mechanism for residential customers that provides a monthly benchmark level of revenue per rate class for recovery. atlanta gas light on june 3, 2019, atlanta gas light filed a general base rate case with the georgia psc. on december 19, 2019, the georgia psc approved a $65 million annual base rate increase, effective january 1, 2020, based on a roe of 10.25% and an equity ratio of 56%. earnings will be evaluated against a roe range of 10.05% to 10.45% , with disposition of any earnings above 10.45% to be determined by the georgia psc. additionally, the georgia psc approved continuation of the previously authorized inclusion in base rates of the recovery of and return on the infrastructure program investments, including, but not limited to, gram adjustments, and a reauthorization and continuation of gram until terminated by the georgia psc. gram filing rate adjustments will be based on the authorized roe of 10.25%. gram adjustments for 2021 may not exceed 5% of 2020 base rates. the 5% limitation does not set a precedent in any future rate proceedings by atlanta gas light. on january 31, 2020, in accordance with the georgia psc's order for the 2019 rate case, atlanta gas light filed a recommended notice of proposed rulemaking for a long-range planning tool. the proposal provides for participating natural gas utilities to file a comprehensive capacity supply and related infrastructure delivery plan for a 10-year period, including capital and related operations and maintenance expense budgets. participating natural gas utilities would file an updated 10-year plan at least once every third year under the proposal. related costs of implementing an approved comprehensive plan would be included in the utility's next rate case or gram filing. the rulemaking process is expected to be completed during 2020. virginia natural gas in december 2018, the virginia commission approved virginia natural gas' annual information form filing, which reduced annual base rates by $14 million effective january 1, 2019 due to lower tax expense as a result of the tax reform legislation, along with customer refunds, via bill credits, for $14 million related to 2018 tax benefits deferred as a regulatory liability at december 31, 2018. these customer refunds were completed in the first quarter 2019. on february 3, 2020, virginia natural gas filed a notice of intent with the virginia commission as required prior to the filing of a base rate case, which will occur between april 3, 2020 and april 30, 2020. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. see note 2 to the financial statements under " southern company gas rate proceedings " for additional information. ii-77 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report affiliate asset management agreements with the exception of nicor gas, the natural gas distribution utilities use asset management agreements with an affiliate, sequent, for the primary purpose of reducing utility customers' gas cost recovery rates through payments to the utilities by sequent. for atlanta gas light, these payments are controlled by the georgia psc and are utilized for infrastructure improvements and to fund heating assistance programs, rather than as a reduction to gas cost recovery rates. under these asset management agreements, sequent supplies natural gas to the utility and markets available pipeline and storage capacity to improve the overall cost of supplying gas to the utility customers. currently, the natural gas distribution utilities primarily purchase their gas from sequent. the purchase agreements require sequent to provide firm gas to the natural gas distribution utilities, but these natural gas distribution utilities maintain the right and ability to make their own long-term supply arrangements if they believe it is in the best interest of their customers. each agreement provides for sequent to make payments to the natural gas distribution utility through either an annual minimum guarantee within a profit sharing structure, a profit sharing structure without an annual minimum guarantee, or a fixed fee. unrecognized ratemaking amounts the following table illustrates southern company gas' authorized ratemaking amounts that are not recognized on its balance sheets. these amounts are primarily composed of an allowed equity rate of return on assets associated with certain regulatory infrastructure programs. these amounts will be recognized as revenues in southern company gas' financial statements in the periods they are billable to customers, the majority of which will be recovered by 2025. december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 (in millions) atlanta gas light $ 70 $ 95 virginia natural gas 10 11 nicor gas 2 4 total $ 82 $ 110 construction programs the registrants are engaged in continuous construction programs to accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective systems. the southern company system intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing new electric generating facilities, expanding and improving the electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution systems, and undertaking projects to comply with environmental laws and regulations. for the traditional electric operating companies, major generation construction projects are subject to state psc approval in order to be included in retail rates. the largest construction project currently underway in the southern company system is plant vogtle units 3 and 4. see " nuclear construction " herein for additional information. also see " regulatory matters alabama power " herein for information regarding alabama power's construction of plant barry unit 8. while southern power generally constructs and acquires generation assets covered by long-term ppas, any uncontracted capacity could negatively affect future earnings. see " southern power " herein, " acquisitions and dispositions southern power " herein, and note 15 to the financial statements under " southern power " for additional information about costs relating to southern power's acquisitions that involve construction of renewable energy facilities. southern company gas is engaged in various infrastructure improvement programs designed to update or expand the natural gas distribution systems of the natural gas distribution utilities to improve reliability and meet operational flexibility and growth. the natural gas distribution utilities recover their investment and a return associated with these infrastructure programs through their regulated rates. see " southern company gas " herein for additional information regarding infrastructure improvement programs at the natural gas distribution utilities and certain pipeline construction projects. see financial condition and liquidity " capital requirements " herein for additional information regarding the registrants' capital requirements for their construction programs, including estimated totals for each of the next five years. nuclear construction in 2009, the georgia psc certified construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. georgia power holds a 45.7% ownership interest in plant vogtle units 3 and 4. in 2012, the nrc issued the related combined construction and operating licenses, which allowed full construction of the two ap1000 nuclear units (with electric generating capacity of approximately 1,100 mws each) and related facilities to begin. until march 2017, construction on plant vogtle units 3 and 4 continued under the vogtle 3 and 4 agreement, ii-78 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report which was a substantially fixed price agreement. in march 2017, the epc contractor filed for bankruptcy protection under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code. in connection with the epc contractor's bankruptcy filing, georgia power, acting for itself and as agent for the other vogtle owners, entered into several transitional arrangements to allow construction to continue. in july 2017, georgia power, acting for itself and as agent for the other vogtle owners, entered into the vogtle services agreement, whereby westinghouse provides facility design and engineering services, procurement and technical support, and staff augmentation on a time and materials cost basis. the vogtle services agreement provides that it will continue until the start-up and testing of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are complete and electricity is generated and sold from both units. the vogtle services agreement is terminable by the vogtle owners upon 30 days' written notice. in october 2017, georgia power, acting for itself and as agent for the other vogtle owners, executed the bechtel agreement, a cost reimbursable plus fee arrangement, whereby bechtel is reimbursed for actual costs plus a base fee and an at-risk fee, which is subject to adjustment based on bechtel's performance against cost and schedule targets. each vogtle owner is severally (not jointly) liable for its proportionate share, based on its ownership interest, of all amounts owed to bechtel under the bechtel agreement. the vogtle owners may terminate the bechtel agreement at any time for their convenience, provided that the vogtle owners will be required to pay amounts related to work performed prior to the termination (including the applicable portion of the base fee), certain termination-related costs, and, at certain stages of the work, the applicable portion of the at-risk fee. bechtel may terminate the bechtel agreement under certain circumstances, including certain vogtle owner suspensions of work, certain breaches of the bechtel agreement by the vogtle owners, vogtle owner insolvency, and certain other events. see note 8 to the financial statements under " long-term debt doe loan guarantee borrowings " for information on the amended and restated loan guarantee agreement, including applicable covenants, events of default, mandatory prepayment events, and conditions to borrowing. cost and schedule georgia power's approximate proportionate share of the remaining estimated capital cost to complete plant vogtle units 3 and 4 by the expected in-service dates of november 2021 and november 2022, respectively, is as follows: (in billions) base project capital cost forecast (a)(b) $ 8.2 construction contingency estimate 0.2 total project capital cost forecast (a)(b) 8.4 net investment as of december 31, 2019 (b) (5.9 ) remaining estimate to complete (a) $ 2.5 (a) excludes financing costs expected to be capitalized through afudc of approximately $300 million , of which $23 million had been accrued through december 31, 2019 . (b) net of $1.7 billion received from toshiba under the guarantee settlement agreement and approximately $188 million in related customer refunds. as of december 31, 2019 , approximately $140 million of the $366 million construction contingency estimate established in the second quarter 2018 was allocated to the base capital cost forecast for cost risks including, among other factors, construction productivity; craft labor incentives; adding resources for supervision, field support, project management, initial test program, start-up, and operations and engineering support; subcontracts; and procurement. as and when construction contingency is spent, georgia power may request the georgia psc to evaluate those expenditures for rate recovery. georgia power estimates that its financing costs for construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 will total approximately $3.1 billion , of which $2.2 billion had been incurred through december 31, 2019 . as part of its ongoing processes, southern nuclear continues to evaluate cost and schedule forecasts on a regular basis to incorporate current information available, particularly in the areas of commodity installation, system turnovers, and workforce statistics. in april 2019, southern nuclear established aggressive target values for monthly construction production and system turnover activities as part of a strategy to maintain and, where possible, build margin to the regulatory-approved in-service dates of november 2021 for unit 3 and november 2022 for unit 4. the project has faced challenges with the april 2019 aggressive strategy targets, including, but not limited to, electrical and pipefitting labor productivity and closure rates for work packages, which resulted in a backlog of activities and completion percentages below the april 2019 aggressive strategy targets. however, ii-79 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report southern nuclear and georgia power believe that existing productivity levels and pace of activity completion are sufficient to meet the regulatory-approved in-service dates. in february 2020, southern nuclear updated its cost and schedule forecast, which did not change the projected overall capital cost forecast and confirmed the expected in-service dates of november 2021 for unit 3 and november 2022 for unit 4. this update included initiatives to improve productivity while refining and extending system turnover plans and certain near-term milestone dates. other milestone dates did not change. achievement of the aggressive site work plan relies on meeting increased monthly production and activity target values during 2020. to meet these 2020 targets, existing craft, including subcontractors, construction productivity must improve and be sustained above historical average levels, appropriate levels of craft laborers, particularly electrical and pipefitter craft labor, must be maintained, and additional supervision and other field support resources must be retained. southern nuclear and georgia power continue to believe that pursuit of an aggressive site work plan is an appropriate strategy to achieve completion of the units by their regulatory-approved in-service dates. as construction, including subcontract work, continues and testing and system turnover activities increase, challenges with management of contractors and vendors; subcontractor performance; supervision of craft labor and related craft labor productivity, particularly in the installation of electrical and mechanical commodities, ability to attract and retain craft labor, and/or related cost escalation; procurement, fabrication, delivery, assembly, installation, system turnover, and the initial testing and start-up, including any required engineering changes or any remediation related thereto, of plant systems, structures, or components (some of which are based on new technology that only within the last few years began initial operation in the global nuclear industry at this scale), or regional transmission upgrades, any of which may require additional labor and/or materials; or other issues could arise and change the projected schedule and estimated cost. there have been technical and procedural challenges to the construction and licensing of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 at the federal and state level and additional challenges may arise. processes are in place that are designed to assure compliance with the requirements specified in the westinghouse design control document and the combined construction and operating licenses, including inspections by southern nuclear and the nrc that occur throughout construction. as a result of such compliance processes, certain license amendment requests have been filed and approved or are pending before the nrc. various design and other licensing-based compliance matters, including the timely submittal by southern nuclear of the itaac documentation for each unit and the related reviews and approvals by the nrc necessary to support nrc authorization to load fuel, may arise, which may result in additional license amendments or require other resolution. as part of the aggressive site work plan, in january 2020, southern nuclear notified the nrc of its intent to load fuel in 2020. if any license amendment requests or other licensing-based compliance issues are not resolved in a timely manner, there may be delays in the project schedule that could result in increased costs. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. however, any extension of the regulatory-approved project schedule is currently estimated to result in additional base capital costs of approximately $50 million per month, based on georgia power's ownership interests, and afudc of approximately $12 million per month. while georgia power is not precluded from seeking recovery of any future capital cost forecast increase, management will ultimately determine whether or not to seek recovery. any further changes to the capital cost forecast that are not expected to be recoverable through regulated rates will be required to be charged to income and such charges could be material. joint owner contracts in november 2017, the vogtle owners entered into an amendment to their joint ownership agreements for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 to provide for, among other conditions, additional vogtle owner approval requirements. effective in august 2018, the vogtle owners further amended the joint ownership agreements to clarify and provide procedures for certain provisions of the joint ownership agreements related to adverse events that require the vote of the holders of at least 90% of the ownership interests in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 to continue construction (as amended, and together with the november 2017 amendment, the vogtle joint ownership agreements). the vogtle joint ownership agreements also confirm that the vogtle owners' sole recourse against georgia power or southern nuclear for any action or inaction in connection with their performance as agent for the vogtle owners is limited to removal of georgia power and/or southern nuclear as agent, except in cases of willful misconduct. as a result of an increase in the total project capital cost forecast and georgia power's decision not to seek rate recovery of the increase in the base capital costs in conjunction with the nineteenth vcm report in 2018, the holders of at least 90% of the ownership interests in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 were required to vote to continue construction. in september 2018, the vogtle owners unanimously voted to continue construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. ii-80 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report amendments to the vogtle joint ownership agreements in connection with the vote to continue construction, georgia power entered into (i) a binding term sheet (vogtle owner term sheet) with the other vogtle owners and meag power's wholly-owned subsidiaries meag power spvj, llc (meag spvj), meag power spvm, llc (meag spvm), and meag power spvp, llc (meag spvp) to take certain actions which partially mitigate potential financial exposure for the other vogtle owners, including additional amendments to the vogtle joint ownership agreements and the purchase of ptcs from the other vogtle owners at pre-established prices, and (ii) a term sheet (meag term sheet) with meag power and meag spvj to provide funding with respect to meag spvj's ownership interest in plant vogtle units 3 and 4 under certain circumstances. on january 14, 2019, georgia power, meag power, and meag spvj entered into an agreement to implement the provisions of the meag term sheet. on february 18, 2019, georgia power, the other vogtle owners, and meag power's wholly-owned subsidiaries meag spvj, meag spvm, and meag spvp entered into certain amendments to the vogtle joint ownership agreements to implement the provisions of the vogtle owner term sheet. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. regulatory matters in 2009, the georgia psc voted to certify construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 with a certified capital cost of $4.418 billion . in addition, in 2009 the georgia psc approved inclusion of the plant vogtle units 3 and 4 related cwip accounts in rate base, and the state of georgia enacted the georgia nuclear energy financing act, which allows georgia power to recover financing costs for plant vogtle units 3 and 4. financing costs are recovered on all applicable certified costs through annual adjustments to the nccr tariff up to the certified capital cost of $4.418 billion . at december 31, 2019 , georgia power had recovered approximately $2.2 billion of financing costs. financing costs related to capital costs above $4.418 billion are being recognized through afudc and are expected to be recovered through retail rates over the life of plant vogtle units 3 and 4; however, georgia power will not record afudc related to any capital costs in excess of the total deemed reasonable by the georgia psc (currently $7.3 billion ) and not requested for rate recovery. on december 17, 2019, the georgia psc approved georgia power's request to decrease the nccr tariff by $62 million annually, effective january 1, 2020. georgia power is required to file semi-annual vcm reports with the georgia psc by february 28 and august 31 of each year. in 2013, in connection with the eighth vcm report, the georgia psc approved a stipulation between georgia power and the staff of the georgia psc to waive the requirement to amend the plant vogtle units 3 and 4 certificate in accordance with the 2009 certification order until the completion of plant vogtle unit 3, or earlier if deemed appropriate by the georgia psc and georgia power. in 2016, the georgia psc voted to approve a settlement agreement (vogtle cost settlement agreement) resolving certain prudency matters in connection with the fifteenth vcm report. in december 2017, the georgia psc voted to approve (and issued its related order on january 11, 2018) georgia power's seventeenth vcm report and modified the vogtle cost settlement agreement. the vogtle cost settlement agreement, as modified by the january 11, 2018 order, resolved the following regulatory matters related to plant vogtle units 3 and 4: (i) none of the $3.3 billion of costs incurred through december 31, 2015 and reflected in the fourteenth vcm report should be disallowed from rate base on the basis of imprudence; (ii) the contractor settlement agreement was reasonable and prudent and none of the amounts paid pursuant to the contractor settlement agreement should be disallowed from rate base on the basis of imprudence; (iii) (a) capital costs incurred up to $5.68 billion would be presumed to be reasonable and prudent with the burden of proof on any party challenging such costs, (b) georgia power would have the burden to show that any capital costs above $5.68 billion were prudent, and (c) a revised capital cost forecast of $7.3 billion (after reflecting the impact of payments received under the guarantee settlement agreement and related customer refunds) was found reasonable; (iv) construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 should be completed, with southern nuclear serving as project manager and bechtel as primary contractor; (v) approved and deemed reasonable georgia power's revised schedule placing plant vogtle units 3 and 4 in service in november 2021 and november 2022, respectively; (vi) confirmed that the revised cost forecast does not represent a cost cap and that prudence decisions on cost recovery will be made at a later date, consistent with applicable georgia law; (vii) reduced the roe used to calculate the nccr tariff (a) from 10.95% (the roe rate setting point authorized by the georgia psc in the 2013 arp) to 10.00% effective january 1, 2016, (b) from 10.00% to 8.30% , effective january 1, 2020, and (c) from 8.30% to 5.30% , effective january 1, 2021 (provided that the roe in no case will be less than georgia power's average cost of long-term debt); (viii) reduced the roe used for afudc equity for plant vogtle units 3 and 4 from 10.00% to georgia power's average cost of long-term debt, effective january 1, 2018; and (ix) agreed that upon unit 3 reaching commercial operation, retail base rates would be adjusted to include carrying costs on those capital costs deemed prudent in the vogtle cost settlement agreement. the january 11, 2018 order also stated that if plant vogtle units 3 and 4 are not commercially operational by june 1, 2021 and june 1, 2022, respectively, the roe used to calculate the nccr tariff will be further reduced by 10 basis points each month (but not lower than georgia power's average cost of long-term debt) until the respective unit is commercially operational. the roe reductions negatively impacted earnings by approximately $75 million , ii-81 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report $100 million , and $25 million in 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively, and are estimated to have negative earnings impacts of approximately $140 million , $240 million , and $190 million in 2020, 2021, and 2022, respectively. in its january 11, 2018 order, the georgia psc also stated if other conditions change and assumptions upon which georgia power's seventeenth vcm report are based do not materialize, the georgia psc reserved the right to reconsider the decision to continue construction. in february 2018, georgia interfaith power &amp; light, inc. (gipl) and partnership for southern equity, inc. (pse) filed a petition appealing the georgia psc's january 11, 2018 order with the fulton county superior court. in march 2018, georgia watch filed a similar appeal to the fulton county superior court for judicial review of the georgia psc's decision and denial of georgia watch's motion for reconsideration. in december 2018, the fulton county superior court granted georgia power's motion to dismiss the two appeals. on january 9, 2019, gipl, pse, and georgia watch filed an appeal of this decision with the georgia court of appeals. on october 29, 2019, the georgia court of appeals issued an opinion affirming the fulton county superior court's ruling that the georgia psc's january 11, 2018 order was not a final, appealable decision. in addition, the georgia court of appeals remanded the case to the fulton county superior court to clarify its ruling as to whether the petitioners showed that review of the georgia psc's final order would not provide them an adequate remedy. georgia power believes the petitions have no merit; however, an adverse outcome in the litigation combined with subsequent adverse action by the georgia psc could have a material impact on southern company's and georgia power's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. on february 18, 2020, the georgia psc approved georgia power's twentieth vcm report and its concurrently-filed twenty-first vcm report, including approval of (i) $1.2 billion of construction capital costs incurred from july 1, 2018 through june 30, 2019 and (ii) $21.5 million of expenditures related to georgia power's portion of an administrative claim filed in the westinghouse bankruptcy proceedings (which expenditures had previously been deferred by the georgia psc for later approval). through the twenty-first vcm, the georgia psc has approved total construction capital costs incurred through june 30, 2019 of $6.7 billion (before $1.7 billion of payments received under the guarantee settlement agreement and approximately $188 million in related customer refunds). on february 19, 2020, georgia power filed its twenty-second vcm report with the georgia psc covering the period from july 1, 2019 through december 31, 2019, requesting approval of $674 million of construction capital costs incurred during that period. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. southern power during 2019 , southern power completed construction of and placed in service the 385-mw plant mankato expansion and the wildhorse mountain facility, acquired and continued construction of the skookumchuck facility, and continued construction of the reading facility. project facility resource approximate nameplate capacity ( mw ) location actual/expected cod ppa counterparties ppa contract period projects completed during the year ended december 31, 2019 mankato expansion (a) natural gas 385 mankato, mn may 2019 northern states power company 20 years wildhorse mountain (b) wind 100 pushmataha county, ok december 2019 arkansas electric cooperative corporation 20 years projects under construction at december 31, 2019 reading (c) wind 200 osage and lyon counties, ks second quarter 2020 royal caribbean cruises ltd 12 years skookumchuck (d) wind 136 lewis and thurston counties, wa second quarter 2020 puget sound energy 20 years (a) southern power completed the sale of its equity interests in plant mankato, including the expansion, to a subsidiary of xcel on january 17, 2020. the expansion unit started providing energy under a ppa with northern states power on june 1, 2019. see " acquisitions and dispositions southern power sales of natural gas and biomass plants " herein and note 15 to the financial statements under " southern power " and " assets held for sale " for additional information. (b) in may 2018, southern power purchased 100% of the membership interests of the wildhorse mountain facility. in december 2019, southern power entered into a tax equity partnership and, as a result, owns 100% of the class b membership interests. (c) in august 2018, southern power purchased 100% of the membership interests of the reading facility pursuant to a joint development arrangement. southern power may enter into a tax equity partnership, in which case it would then own 100% of the class b membership interests. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. ii-82 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report (d) in october 2019, southern power purchased 100% of the membership interests of the skookumchuck facility pursuant to a joint development arrangement. in december 2019, southern power entered into a tax equity agreement as the class b member with funding of the tax equity amounts expected to occur upon commercial operation. shortly after commercial operation, southern power may sell a noncontrolling interest in these class b membership interests to another partner. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. total aggregate construction costs for the two projects under construction at december 31, 2019 , excluding acquisition costs, are expected to be between $490 million and $535 million . at december 31, 2019 , total costs of construction incurred for these projects were $417 million and are included in cwip. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. southern company gas infrastructure replacement programs and capital projects southern company gas continues to focus on capital discipline and cost control while pursuing projects and initiatives that are expected to have current and future benefits to customers, provide an appropriate return on invested capital, and help ensure the safety and reliability of the utility infrastructure. in addition to capital expenditures recovered through base rates by each of the natural gas distribution utilities, nicor gas and virginia natural gas have separate rate riders that provide timely recovery of capital expenditures for specific infrastructure replacement programs. total capital expenditures incurred during 2019 for gas distribution operations were $1.4 billion . the following table and discussions provide updates on the infrastructure replacement programs and capital projects at the natural gas distribution utilities at december 31, 2019 . these programs are risk-based and designed to update and replace cast iron, bare steel, and mid-vintage plastic materials or expand southern company gas' distribution systems to improve reliability and meet operational flexibility and growth. the anticipated expenditures for these programs in 2020 are quantified in the discussion below. utility program recovery expenditures in 2019 expenditures since project inception pipe installed since project inception scope of program program duration last year of program (in millions) (miles) (miles) (years) nicor gas investing in illinois(*) rider $ 396 $ 1,712 843 1,450 9 2023 virginia natural gas steps to advance virginia's energy (save and save ii) rider 45 244 363 770 13 2024 total $ 441 $ 1,956 1,206 2,220 (*) includes replacement of pipes, compressors, and transmission mains along with other improvements such as new meters. scope of program miles is an estimate and subject to change. nicor gas in 2013, illinois enacted legislation that allows nicor gas to provide more widespread safety and reliability enhancements to its distribution system. the legislation stipulates that rate increases to customers as a result of any infrastructure investments shall not exceed a cumulative annual average of 4.0% or, in any given year, 5.5% of base rate revenues. in 2014, the illinois commission approved the nine-year regulatory infrastructure program, investing in illinois, subject to annual review. nicor gas expects to place into service $400 million of qualifying projects under investing in illinois in 2020 . in conjunction with the base rate case order issued by the illinois commission in january 2018, nicor gas is recovering program costs incurred prior to december 31, 2017 through base rates. additionally, the illinois commission's approval of nicor gas' rate case on october 2, 2019 included $65 million in annual revenues related to the recovery of program costs from january 1, 2018 through september 30, 2019 under the investing in illinois program. see " regulatory matters southern company gas rate proceedings " herein for additional information. virginia natural gas in 2012, the virginia commission approved the save program, an accelerated infrastructure replacement program. in 2016 and on september 25, 2019, the virginia commission approved amendments and extensions to the save program. the latest extension allows virginia natural gas to continue replacing aging pipeline infrastructure through 2024 and increases its authorized investment under the previously-approved plan from $35 million to $40 million in 2019 with additional annual investments of $50 million in 2020, $60 million in 2021, $70 million in each year from 2022 through 2024, and a total potential ii-83 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report variance of up to $5 million allowed for the program, for a maximum total investment over the six -year term (2019 through 2024) of $365 million . virginia natural gas expects to invest $50 million under this program in 2020 . the save program is subject to annual review by the virginia commission. in accordance with the base rate case order issued by the virginia commission in 2017, virginia natural gas is recovering program costs incurred prior to september 1, 2017 through base rates. program costs incurred subsequent to september 1, 2017 are currently recovered through a separate rider and are subject to future base rate case proceedings. on december 6, 2019, virginia natural gas filed an application with the virginia commission for a 24.1-mile header improvement project to improve resiliency and increase the supply of natural gas delivered to energy suppliers, including virginia natural gas. the cost of the project is expected to total $346 million. the virginia commission is expected to rule on this application in the second quarter 2020. construction is expected to begin in june 2021 and the project is expected to be placed in service in the fourth quarter 2022. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. atlanta gas light as discussed under "regulatory matters southern company gas utility regulation and rate design " herein, i-srp and i-vpr will continue under gram and the recovery of and return on current and future infrastructure program capital investments will be included in base rates. pipeline construction projects southern company gas is involved in two significant pipeline construction projects within its gas pipeline investments segment. these projects, along with southern company gas' existing pipelines, are intended to provide diverse sources of natural gas supplies to customers, resolve current and long-term supply planning for new capacity, enhance system reliability, and generate economic development in the areas served. in 2014, southern company gas entered into a joint venture, whereby it holds a 5% ownership interest in the atlantic coast pipeline, an interstate pipeline company formed to develop and operate an approximate 605-mile natural gas pipeline in north carolina, virginia, and west virginia with expected initial transportation capacity of 1.5 bcf per day. the proposed pipeline project is expected to transport natural gas to customers in virginia. in 2017, the atlantic coast pipeline received ferc approval. the atlantic coast pipeline has experienced challenges to its permits since construction began in 2018. during the third and fourth quarters 2018, a ferc stop work order, together with delays in obtaining permits necessary for construction and construction delays due to judicial actions, impacted the cost and schedule for the project. project cost estimates are approximately $8.0 billion ($400 million for southern company gas), excluding financing costs. on october 4, 2019, the u.s. supreme court agreed to hear atlantic coast pipeline's appeal of a lower court ruling that overturned a key permit for the project. on january 7, 2020, the u.s. court of appeals for the fourth circuit vacated another key permit. the operator of the joint venture has indicated that it currently expects to complete construction by the end of 2021 and place the project in service shortly thereafter. on february 7, 2020, southern company gas entered into an agreement with dominion atlantic coast pipeline, llc for the sale of its interest in atlantic coast pipeline. the transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2020; however, the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time. see note 15 to the financial statements under "southern company gas proposed sale of pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline" for additional information. also in 2014, southern company gas entered into a partnership in which it holds a 20% ownership interest in the penneast pipeline, an interstate pipeline company formed to develop and operate an approximate 118-mile natural gas pipeline between new jersey and pennsylvania. the expected initial transportation capacity of 1.0 bcf per day is under long-term contracts, mainly with public utilities and other market-serving entities, such as electric generation companies, in new jersey, pennsylvania, and new york. southern company gas believes this pipeline will alleviate takeaway constraints in the marcellus region and help mitigate some of the price volatility experienced during recent winters. expected project costs related to the penneast pipeline for southern company gas total approximately $300 million, excluding financing costs. in january 2018, the penneast pipeline received initial ferc approval. work continues with state and federal agencies to obtain the required permits to begin construction. on september 10, 2019, an appellate court ruled that the penneast pipeline does not have federal eminent domain authority over lands in which a state has property rights interests. on february 18, 2020, penneast pipeline filed a petition for a writ of certiorari to seek u.s. supreme court review of the appellate court decision. on december 30, 2019, penneast pipeline filed a two-year extension request with the ferc to complete the project by january 19, 2022. ii-84 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report additionally, on january 30, 2020, penneast pipeline filed an amendment with the ferc to construct the pipeline project in two phases. the first phase would consist of 68 miles of pipe, constructed entirely within pennsylvania, which is expected to be completed by november 2021. the second phase would include the remaining route in pennsylvania and new jersey and is targeted for completion in 2023. ferc approval of the amended plan is required prior to beginning the first phase. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time; however, any work delays, whether caused by judicial or regulatory action, abnormal weather, or other conditions, may result in additional cost or schedule modifications or, ultimately, in project cancellation, any of which could result in an impairment of one or both of southern company gas' investments and could have a material impact on southern company's and southern company gas' financial statements. southern company gas evaluated its investments and determined there was no impairment as of december 31, 2019 . see notes 3 and 7 to the financial statements under " guarantees " and " southern company gas equity method investments ," respectively, for additional information on these pipeline projects. southern power's power sales agreements general southern power has ppas with some of the traditional electric operating companies, other investor-owned utilities, ipps, municipalities, and other load-serving entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers. the ppas are expected to provide southern power with a stable source of revenue during their respective terms. many of southern power's ppas have provisions that require southern power or the counterparty to post collateral or an acceptable substitute guarantee in the event that s&amp;p or moody's downgrades the credit ratings of the respective company to an unacceptable credit rating or if the counterparty is not rated or fails to maintain a minimum coverage ratio. on january 29, 2019, pacific gas &amp; electric company (pg&amp;e) filed petitions to reorganize under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code. southern power, together with its noncontrolling partners, owns four solar facilities where pg&amp;e is the energy off-taker for approximately 207 mws of capacity under long-term ppas. pg&amp;e is also the transmission provider for these four facilities and two of southern power's other solar facilities. at december 31, 2019, southern power had outstanding accounts receivables due from pg&amp;e of $2 million related to the ppas and $33 million related to the transmission interconnections (of which $27 million is classified in receivables other and $6 million is classified in other deferred charges and assets). subsequent to december 31, 2019, southern power received $15 million in accordance with a november 2019 bankruptcy court order granting payment of transmission interconnections for amounts due and owing. southern power continues to evaluate the recoverability of its investments in these solar facilities under various scenarios, including selling the related energy into the competitive markets, and has concluded that these solar facilities are not impaired. pg&amp;e has continued to perform under the terms of the ppas. southern power does not expect a material impact to its financial statements if, as a result of the bankruptcy proceedings, pg&amp;e does not perform in accordance with the ppas or the terms of the ppas are renegotiated; however, the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. southern power is working to maintain and expand its share of the wholesale markets. during 2019, southern power saw an increase in the demand for energy and capacity that can be served from natural gas generating facilities, especially in the southeast, and expects that this increase in demand will continue in the near term (2020-2022), with timing varying depending on the market. during 2019, southern power successfully remarketed approximately 190 to 650 mws of annual natural gas generation capacity to load-serving entities through several ppas extending over the next nine years. southern power calculates an investment coverage ratio for its generating assets, including those owned with various partners, based on the ratio of investment under contract to total investment using the respective generation facilities' net book value (or expected in-service value for facilities under construction) as the investment amount. with the inclusion of investments associated with the wind facilities currently under construction, as well as other capacity and energy contracts, and excluding plant mankato, which was sold on january 17, 2020, southern power's average investment coverage ratio at december 31, 2019 was 93% through 2024 and 90% through 2029, with an average remaining contract duration of approximately 14 years. see " acquisitions and dispositions southern power " and " construction programs southern power " herein for additional information. natural gas southern power's electricity sales from natural gas facilities are primarily through long-term ppas that consist of two types of agreements. the first type, referred to as a unit or block sale, is a customer purchase from a dedicated generating unit where all or a portion of the generation from that unit is reserved for that customer. southern power typically has the ability to serve the unit or block sale customer from an alternate resource. the second type, referred to as requirements service, provides that southern power serve the customer's capacity and energy requirements from a combination of the customer's own generating units and ii-85 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report from southern power resources not dedicated to serve unit or block sales. southern power has rights to purchase power provided by the requirements customers' resources when economically viable. as a general matter, substantially all of the ppas provide that the purchasers are responsible for either procuring the fuel (tolling agreements) or reimbursing southern power for substantially all of the cost of fuel or purchased power relating to the energy delivered under such ppas. to the extent a particular generating facility does not meet the operational requirements contemplated in the ppas, southern power may be responsible for excess fuel costs. with respect to fuel transportation risk, most of southern power's ppas provide that the counterparties are responsible for the availability of fuel transportation to the particular generating facility. capacity charges that form part of the ppa payments are designed to recover fixed and variable operation and maintenance costs based on dollars-per-kilowatt year. in general, to reduce southern power's exposure to certain operation and maintenance costs, southern power has ltsas. see note 1 to the financial statements under " long-term service agreements " for additional information. solar and wind southern power's electricity sales from solar and wind (renewable) generating facilities are also primarily through long-term ppas; however, these solar and wind ppas do not have a capacity charge and customers either purchase the energy output of a dedicated renewable facility through an energy charge or provide southern power a certain fixed price for the electricity sold to the grid. as a result, southern power's ability to recover fixed and variable operations and maintenance expenses is dependent upon the level of energy generated from these facilities, which can be impacted by weather conditions, equipment performance, transmission constraints, and other factors. generally, under the renewable generation ppas, the purchasing party retains the right to keep or resell the renewable energy credits. income tax matters consolidated income taxes on behalf of the registrants, southern company files a consolidated federal income tax return and various state income tax returns, some of which are combined or unitary. under a joint consolidated income tax allocation agreement, each southern company subsidiary's current and deferred tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis and no subsidiary is allocated more current expense than would be paid if it filed a separate income tax return. in accordance with irs regulations, each company is jointly and severally liable for the federal tax liability. the impact of certain tax events at southern company and/or its other subsidiaries can, and does, affect each registrant's ability to utilize certain tax credits. see " tax credits " and accounting policies " application of critical accounting policies and estimates " herein and note 10 to the financial statements for additional information. federal tax reform legislation in 2017, the tax reform legislation was signed into law and became effective on january 1, 2018. the tax reform legislation, among other things, reduced the federal corporate income tax rate to 21%, retained normalization provisions for public utility property and existing renewable energy incentives, and repealed the corporate alternative minimum tax. in addition, under the tax reform legislation, nols generated after december 31, 2017 can no longer be carried back to previous tax years but can be carried forward indefinitely, with utilization limited to 80% of taxable income of the subsequent tax year. the projected reduction of southern company's consolidated income tax liability resulting from the tax rate reduction also delays the expected utilization of existing tax credit carryforwards. see " consolidated income taxes " herein and note 10 to the financial statements for information on southern company's joint consolidated income tax allocation agreement. ii-86 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report bonus depreciation under the tax reform legislation, projects with binding contracts prior to september 28, 2017 and placed in service after september 27, 2017 remain eligible for 50% bonus depreciation for 2015 through 2017, 40% bonus depreciation for 2018, and 30% bonus depreciation for 2019 and certain long-lived assets placed in service in 2020. based on provisional estimates, bonus depreciation is expected to result in positive cash flows for the registrants as follows: 2019 tax year 2020 tax year (in millions) southern company $ 989 $ 382 alabama power 180 68 georgia power 314 56 mississippi power 7 2 southern power (*) 87 95 southern company gas 190 58 (*) cash flows resulting from bonus depreciation for southern power would also be impacted by southern power's use of tax equity partnerships. see note 10 to the financial statements under " current and deferred income taxes " for additional information. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. tax credits the tax reform legislation retained solar energy incentives of 30% itc for projects that commenced construction by december 31, 2019; 26% itc for projects that commence construction in 2020; 22% itc for projects that commence construction in 2021; and a permanent 10% itc for projects that commence construction on or after january 1, 2022. in addition, the tax reform legislation retained wind energy incentives of 100% ptc for projects that commenced construction in 2016; 80% ptc for projects that commenced construction in 2017; 60% ptc for projects that commenced construction in 2018; and 40% ptc for projects that commenced construction in 2019. as a result of a tax extenders bill passed in december 2019, projects that begin construction in 2020 will be entitled to 60% ptc. projects commencing construction after 2020 will not be entitled to any ptcs. southern company has received itcs and ptcs in connection with investments in solar, wind, and biomass facilities primarily at southern power and georgia power. southern power's itcs relate to its investment in new solar facilities acquired or constructed and its ptcs relate to the first 10 years of energy production from its wind facilities, which have had, and may continue to have, a material impact on southern power's cash flows and net income. at december 31, 2019 , southern company and southern power had approximately $1.8 billion and $1.4 billion , respectively, of unutilized itcs and ptcs, which are currently expected to be fully utilized by 2024, but could be further delayed. since 2018, southern power has been utilizing tax equity partnerships for wind and solar projects, where the tax partner takes significantly all of the respective federal tax benefits. these tax equity partnerships are consolidated in southern company's and southern power's financial statements using the hlbv methodology to allocate partnership gains and losses. see note 1 to the financial statements under " general " for additional information on the hlbv methodology and note 1 to the financial statements under " income taxes " and note 10 to the financial statements under " deferred tax assets and liabilities tax credit carryforwards " and " effective tax rate " for additional information regarding utilization and amortization of credits and the tax benefit related to associated basis differences. general litigation matters the registrants are involved in various other matters being litigated and regulatory matters that could affect future earnings. the ultimate outcome of such pending or potential litigation or regulatory matters against each registrant and any subsidiaries cannot be determined at this time; however, for current proceedings not specifically reported herein or in notes 2 and 3 to the financial statements, management does not anticipate that the ultimate liabilities, if any, arising from such current proceedings would have a material effect on such registrant's financial statements. see notes 2 and 3 to the financial statements for a discussion of various other contingencies, regulatory matters, and other matters being litigated which may affect future earnings potential. the registrants believe the pending legal challenges discussed below have no merit; however, the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. ii-87 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report southern company in january 2017, a securities class action complaint was filed against southern company, certain of its officers, and certain former mississippi power officers in the u.s. district court for the northern district of georgia by monroe county employees' retirement system on behalf of all persons who purchased shares of southern company's common stock between april 25, 2012 and october 29, 2013. the complaint alleges that southern company, certain of its officers, and certain former mississippi power officers made materially false and misleading statements regarding the kemper county energy facility in violation of certain provisions under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. the complaint seeks, among other things, compensatory damages and litigation costs and attorneys' fees. in 2017, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint that provided additional detail about their claims, increased the purported class period by one day, and added certain other former mississippi power officers as defendants. also in 2017, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the plaintiffs' amended complaint with prejudice, to which the plaintiffs filed an opposition. in march 2018, the court issued an order granting, in part, the defendants' motion to dismiss. the court dismissed certain claims against certain officers of southern company and mississippi power and dismissed the allegations related to a number of the statements that plaintiffs challenged as being false or misleading. in april 2018, the defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the court's order, seeking dismissal of the remaining claims in the lawsuit. in august 2018, the court denied the motion for reconsideration and denied a motion to certify the issue for interlocutory appeal. on august 22, 2019, the court certified the plaintiffs' proposed class. on september 5, 2019, the defendants filed a petition for interlocutory appeal of the class certification order with the u.s. court of appeals for the eleventh circuit. on december 19, 2019, the u.s. district court for the northern district of georgia entered an order staying all deadlines in the case pending mediation. the stay automatically expires on march 31, 2020. in february 2017, jean vineyard and judy mesirov each filed a shareholder derivative lawsuit in the u.s. district court for the northern district of georgia. each of these lawsuits names as defendants southern company, certain of its directors, certain of its officers, and certain former mississippi power officers. in 2017, these two shareholder derivative lawsuits were consolidated in the u.s. district court for the northern district of georgia. the complaints allege that the defendants caused southern company to make false or misleading statements regarding the kemper county energy facility cost and schedule. further, the complaints allege that the defendants were unjustly enriched and caused the waste of corporate assets and also allege that the individual defendants violated their fiduciary duties. each plaintiff seeks to recover, on behalf of southern company, unspecified actual damages and, on each plaintiff's own behalf, attorneys' fees and costs in bringing the lawsuit. each plaintiff also seeks certain changes to southern company's corporate governance and internal processes. in april 2018, the court entered an order staying this lawsuit until 30 days after the resolution of any dispositive motions or any settlement, whichever is earlier, in the securities class action. in may 2017, helen e. piper survivor's trust filed a shareholder derivative lawsuit in the superior court of gwinnett county, georgia that names as defendants southern company, certain of its directors, certain of its officers, and certain former mississippi power officers. the complaint alleges that the individual defendants, among other things, breached their fiduciary duties in connection with schedule delays and cost overruns associated with the construction of the kemper county energy facility. the complaint further alleges that the individual defendants authorized or failed to correct false and misleading statements regarding the kemper county energy facility schedule and cost and failed to implement necessary internal controls to prevent harm to southern company. the plaintiff seeks to recover, on behalf of southern company, unspecified actual damages and disgorgement of profits and, on its behalf, attorneys' fees and costs in bringing the lawsuit. the plaintiff also seeks certain unspecified changes to southern company's corporate governance and internal processes. in may 2018, the court entered an order staying this lawsuit until 30 days after the resolution of any dispositive motions or any settlement, whichever is earlier, in the securities class action. on august 5, 2019, the court granted a motion filed by the plaintiff on july 17, 2019 to substitute a new named plaintiff, martin j. kobuck, in place of helen e. piper survivor's trust. georgia power in 2011, plaintiffs filed a putative class action against georgia power in the superior court of fulton county, georgia alleging that georgia power's collection in rates of amounts for municipal franchise fees (which fees are paid to municipalities) exceeded the amounts allowed in orders of the georgia psc and alleging certain state tort law claims. in 2016, the georgia court of appeals reversed the trial court's previous dismissal of the case and remanded the case to the trial court. georgia power filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the georgia supreme court, which was granted in 2017. in june 2018, the georgia supreme court affirmed the judgment of the georgia court of appeals and remanded the case to the trial court for further proceedings. following a motion by georgia power, on february 13, 2019, the superior court of fulton county ordered the parties to submit petitions to the georgia psc for a declaratory ruling to address certain terms the court previously held were ambiguous as used in the georgia psc's orders. the order entered by the superior court of fulton county also conditionally certified the proposed class. in march 2019, georgia power and the plaintiffs filed petitions with the georgia psc seeking confirmation of the proper ii-88 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report application of the municipal franchise fee schedule pursuant to the georgia psc's orders. on october 23, 2019, the georgia psc issued an order that found and concluded that georgia power has appropriately implemented the municipal franchise fee schedule. on march 6, 2019, georgia power filed a notice of appeal with the georgia court of appeals regarding the superior court of fulton county's february 2019 order. the amount of any possible losses cannot be calculated at this time because, among other factors, it is unknown whether conditional class certification will be upheld and the ultimate composition of any class and whether any losses would be subject to recovery from any municipalities. mississippi power in may 2018, southern company and mississippi power received a notice of dispute and arbitration demand filed by martin product sales, llc (martin) based on two agreements, both related to kemper igcc byproducts for which mississippi power provided termination notices in 2017. martin alleges breach of contract, breach of good faith and fair dealing, fraud and misrepresentation, and civil conspiracy and makes a claim for damages in the amount of approximately $143 million , as well as additional unspecified damages, attorney's fees, costs, and interest. a portion of the claim for damages was on behalf of martin transport, inc. (martin transport), an affiliate of martin. in the first quarter 2019, mississippi power and southern company filed motions to dismiss, which were denied by the arbitration panel on may 10, 2019. on september 27, 2019, martin transport filed a separate complaint against mississippi power in the circuit court of kemper county, mississippi alleging claims of fraud, negligent misrepresentation, promissory estoppel, and equitable estoppel, each arising out of the same alleged facts and circumstances that underlie martin's arbitration demand. martin transport seeks compensatory damages of $5 million and punitive damages of $50 million. in november 2019, martin transport's claim was combined with the martin arbitration case and the separate court case was dismissed. on december 16, 2019, southern company and mississippi power each filed motions for summary judgment on all claims. on february 17, 2020, the arbitration panel granted southern company's motion and dismissed southern company from the arbitration. an adverse outcome in this proceeding could have a material impact on southern company's and mississippi power's financial statements. in november 2018, ray c. turnage and 10 other individual plaintiffs filed a putative class action complaint against mississippi power and three members of the mississippi psc in the u.s. district court for the southern district of mississippi. mississippi power received mississippi psc approval in 2013 to charge a mirror cwip rate premised upon including in its rate base pre-construction and construction costs for the kemper igcc prior to placing the kemper igcc into service. the mississippi supreme court reversed that approval and ordered mississippi power to refund the amounts paid by customers under the previously-approved mirror cwip rate. the plaintiffs allege that the initial approval process, and the amount approved, were improper. they also allege that mississippi power underpaid customers by up to $23.5 million in the refund process by applying an incorrect interest rate. the plaintiffs seek to recover, on behalf of themselves and their putative class, actual damages, punitive damages, pre-judgment interest, post-judgment interest, attorney's fees, and costs. in response to mississippi power and the mississippi psc each filing a motion to dismiss, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on march 14, 2019. the amended complaint included four additional plaintiffs and additional claims for gross negligence, reckless conduct, and intentional wrongdoing. mississippi power and the mississippi psc have each filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. an adverse outcome in this proceeding could have a material impact on mississippi power's financial statements. see note 2 to the financial statements under " kemper county energy facility " for additional information. other matters southern company a subsidiary of southern holdings has several leveraged lease agreements, with original terms ranging up to 45 years , which relate to international and domestic energy generation, distribution, and transportation assets. southern company receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on long-term debt related to these investments. southern company reviews all important lease assumptions at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that a change in assumptions has occurred or may occur. these assumptions include the effective tax rate, the residual value, the credit quality of the lessees, and the timing of expected tax cash flows. see note 1 to the financial statements under " leveraged leases " for additional information. the ability of the lessees to make required payments to the southern holdings subsidiary is dependent on the operational performance of the assets. in 2017, the financial and operational performance of one of the lessees and the associated generation assets raised significant concerns about the short-term ability of the generation assets to produce cash flows sufficient to support ongoing operations and the lessee's contractual obligations and its ability to make the remaining semi-annual lease payments through the end of the lease term in 2047. in addition, following the expiration of the existing power offtake agreement in 2032, the lessee also is exposed to remarketing risk, which encompasses the price and availability of alternative sources of generation. ii-89 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report while all lease payments through december 31, 2019 have been paid in full due to recent operational improvements, operational and remarketing risks and the resulting cash liquidity challenges persist, and significant concerns continue regarding the lessee's ability to make the remaining semi-annual lease payments. these challenges may also impact the expected residual value of the generation assets. southern company has evaluated the recoverability of the lease receivable and the expected residual value of the generation assets under various scenarios. based on current forecasts of energy prices in the years following the expiration of the existing ppa, southern company concluded that it is no longer probable that all of the associated rental payments will be received over the term of the lease. as a result, during the fourth quarter 2019, southern company revised the estimate of cash flows to be received under the leveraged lease, which resulted in an impairment charge of $17 million ( $13 million after tax). if any future lease payment is not paid in full, the southern holdings subsidiary may be unable to make its corresponding payment to the holders of the underlying non-recourse debt related to the generation assets. failure to make the required payment to the debtholders could represent an event of default that would give the debtholders the right to foreclose on, and take ownership of, the generation assets from the southern holdings subsidiary, in effect terminating the lease and resulting in the write-off of the related lease receivable, which totaled approximately $76 million at december 31, 2019. southern company will continue to monitor the operational performance of the underlying assets and evaluate the ability of the lessee to continue to make the required lease payments. the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time. mississippi power in conjunction with southern company's sale of gulf power, nextera energy held back $75 million of the purchase price pending mississippi power and gulf power negotiating a mutually acceptable revised operating agreement for plant daniel. in addition, mississippi power and gulf power committed to seek a restructuring of their 50% undivided ownership interests in plant daniel such that each of them would, after the restructuring, own 100% of a generating unit. on january 15, 2019, gulf power provided notice to mississippi power that gulf power will retire its share of the generating capacity of plant daniel on january 15, 2024. mississippi power has the option to purchase gulf power's ownership interest for $1 on january 15, 2024, provided that mississippi power exercises the option no later than 120 days prior to that date. mississippi power is assessing the potential operational and economic effects of gulf power's notice. the ultimate outcome of these matters remains subject to completion of mississippi power's evaluations and applicable regulatory approvals, including by the ferc and the mississippi psc, and cannot be determined at this time. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company " for information regarding the sale of gulf power. southern company gas a wholly-owned subsidiary of southern company gas owns and operates a natural gas storage facility consisting of two salt dome caverns in louisiana. periodic integrity tests are required in accordance with rules of the louisiana department of natural resources (dnr). in 2017, in connection with an ongoing integrity project, updated seismic mapping indicated the proximity of one of the caverns to the edge of the salt dome may be less than the required minimum and could result in southern company gas retiring the cavern early. in the third quarter 2019, management determined that it no longer planned to obtain the core samples during 2020 that are necessary to determine the composition of the sheath surrounding the edge of the salt dome. core sampling is a requirement of the louisiana dnr to put the cavern back in service; as a result, the cavern will not return to service by 2021. this change in plan, which affects the future operation of the entire storage facility, resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of $91 million ( $69 million after-tax) recorded by southern company gas in 2019. southern company gas continues to monitor the pressure and overall structural integrity of the entire facility pending any future decisions regarding decommissioning. southern company gas has two other natural gas storage facilities located in california and texas, which could be impacted by ongoing changes in the u.s. natural gas storage market. recent sales of natural gas storage facilities have resulted in losses for the sellers and may imply an impact on future rates and/or asset values. sustained diminished natural gas storage values could trigger impairment of either or both of these natural gas storage facilities, which have a combined net book value of $326 million at december 31, 2019. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time, but could have a material impact on the financial statements of southern company and southern company gas. accounting policies application of critical accounting policies and estimates the registrants prepare their financial statements in accordance with gaap. significant accounting policies are described in the notes to the financial statements. in the application of these policies, certain estimates are made that may have a material impact ii-90 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report on the results of operations and related disclosures of the applicable registrants (as indicated in the section descriptions herein). different assumptions and measurements could produce estimates that are significantly different from those recorded in the financial statements. senior management has reviewed and discussed the following critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of southern company's board of directors. utility regulation (southern company, alabama power, georgia power, mississippi power, and southern company gas) the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities are subject to retail regulation by their respective state pscs or other applicable state regulatory agencies and wholesale regulation by the ferc. these regulatory agencies set the rates the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities are permitted to charge customers based on allowable costs, including a reasonable roe. as a result, the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities apply accounting standards which require the financial statements to reflect the effects of rate regulation. through the ratemaking process, the regulators may require the inclusion of costs or revenues in periods different than when they would be recognized by a non-regulated company. this treatment may result in the deferral of expenses and the recording of related regulatory assets based on anticipated future recovery through rates or the deferral of gains or creation of liabilities and the recording of related regulatory liabilities. the application of the accounting standards for rate regulated entities also impacts their financial statements as a result of the estimates of allowable costs used in the ratemaking process. these estimates may differ from those actually incurred by the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities; therefore, the accounting estimates inherent in specific costs such as depreciation, aros, and pension and other postretirement benefits have less of a direct impact on the results of operations and financial condition of the applicable registrants than they would on a non-regulated company. revenues related to regulated utility operations as a percentage of total operating revenues in 2019 for the applicable registrants were as follows: 87% for southern company, 99% for alabama power, 97% for georgia power, 100% for mississippi power, and 80% for southern company gas. as reflected in note 2 to the financial statements, significant regulatory assets and liabilities have been recorded. management reviews the ultimate recoverability of these regulatory assets and any requirement to refund these regulatory liabilities based on applicable regulatory guidelines and gaap. however, adverse legislative, judicial, or regulatory actions could materially impact the amounts of such regulatory assets and liabilities and could adversely impact the financial statements of the applicable registrants. estimated cost, schedule, and rate recovery for the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 (southern company and georgia power) in 2016, the georgia psc approved the vogtle cost settlement agreement, which resolved certain prudency matters in connection with georgia power's fifteenth vcm report. in 2017, the georgia psc approved georgia power's seventeenth vcm report, which included a recommendation to continue construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, with southern nuclear serving as project manager and bechtel serving as the primary construction contractor, as well as a modification of the vogtle cost settlement agreement. the georgia psc's related order stated that under the modified vogtle cost settlement agreement, (i) none of the $3.3 billion of costs incurred through december 31, 2015 should be disallowed as imprudent; (ii) capital costs incurred up to $5.68 billion would be presumed to be reasonable and prudent with the burden of proof on any party challenging such costs; (iii) georgia power would have the burden of proof to show that any capital costs above $5.68 billion were prudent; (iv) georgia power's total project capital cost forecast of $7.3 billion (net of $1.7 billion received under the guarantee settlement agreement and approximately $188 million in related customer refunds) was found reasonable and did not represent a cost cap; and (v) prudence decisions would be made subsequent to achieving fuel load for unit 4. in its order, the georgia psc also stated if other conditions change and assumptions upon which georgia power's seventeenth vcm report are based do not materialize, the georgia psc reserved the right to reconsider the decision to continue construction. in the second quarter 2018, georgia power revised its base cost forecast and estimated contingency to complete construction and start-up of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 to $8.0 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively, for a total project capital cost forecast of $8.4 billion (net of $1.7 billion received under the guarantee settlement agreement and approximately $188 million in related customer refunds). although georgia power believes these incremental costs are reasonable and necessary to complete the project and the georgia psc's order in the seventeenth vcm proceeding specifically states that the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 is not subject to a cost cap, georgia power did not seek rate recovery for the $0.7 billion increase in costs included in the base capital cost forecast in the nineteenth vcm report. after considering the significant level of uncertainty that exists regarding the future recoverability of costs included in the construction contingency estimate since the ultimate outcome of these matters is subject to the outcome of future assessments by management, as well as georgia psc decisions in these future regulatory ii-91 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report proceedings, georgia power recorded a total pre-tax charge to income of $1.1 billion ( $0.8 billion after tax) in the second quarter 2018. georgia power's revised cost estimate reflects an expected in-service date of november 2021 for unit 3 and november 2022 for unit 4. as of december 31, 2019 , approximately $140 million of the $366 million construction contingency estimate established in the second quarter 2018 was allocated to the base capital cost forecast for cost risks including, among other factors, construction productivity; craft labor incentives; adding resources for supervision, field support, project management, initial test program, start-up, and operations and engineering support; subcontracts; and procurement. as and when construction contingency is spent, georgia power may request the georgia psc to evaluate those expenditures for rate recovery. as part of its ongoing processes, southern nuclear continues to evaluate cost and schedule forecasts on a regular basis to incorporate current information available, particularly in the areas of commodity installation, system turnovers, and workforce statistics. in april 2019, southern nuclear established aggressive target values for monthly construction production and system turnover activities as part of a strategy to maintain and, where possible, build margin to the regulatory-approved in-service dates of november 2021 for unit 3 and november 2022 for unit 4. the project has faced challenges with the april 2019 aggressive strategy targets, including, but not limited to, electrical and pipefitting labor productivity and closure rates for work packages, which resulted in a backlog of activities and completion percentages below the april 2019 aggressive strategy targets. however, southern nuclear and georgia power believe that existing productivity levels and pace of activity completion are sufficient to meet the regulatory-approved in-service dates. in february 2020, southern nuclear updated its cost and schedule forecast, which did not change the projected overall capital cost forecast and confirmed the expected in-service dates of november 2021 for unit 3 and november 2022 for unit 4. this update included initiatives to improve productivity while refining and extending system turnover plans and certain near-term milestone dates. other milestone dates did not change. achievement of the aggressive site work plan relies on meeting increased monthly production and activity target values during 2020. to meet these 2020 targets, existing craft, including subcontractors, construction productivity must improve and be sustained above historical average levels, appropriate levels of craft laborers, particularly electrical and pipefitter craft labor, must be maintained, and additional supervision and other field support resources must be retained. southern nuclear and georgia power continue to believe that pursuit of an aggressive site work plan is an appropriate strategy to achieve completion of the units by their regulatory-approved in-service dates. as construction, including subcontract work, continues and testing and system turnover activities increase, challenges with management of contractors and vendors; subcontractor performance; supervision of craft labor and related craft labor productivity, particularly in the installation of electrical and mechanical commodities, ability to attract and retain craft labor, and/or related cost escalation; procurement, fabrication, delivery, assembly, installation, system turnover, and the initial testing and start-up, including any required engineering changes or any remediation related thereto, of plant systems, structures, or components (some of which are based on new technology that only within the last few years began initial operation in the global nuclear industry at this scale), or regional transmission upgrades, any of which may require additional labor and/or materials; or other issues could arise and change the projected schedule and estimated cost. there have been technical and procedural challenges to the construction and licensing of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 at the federal and state level and additional challenges may arise. processes are in place that are designed to assure compliance with the requirements specified in the westinghouse design control document and the combined construction and operating licenses, including inspections by southern nuclear and the nrc that occur throughout construction. as a result of such compliance processes, certain license amendment requests have been filed and approved or are pending before the nrc. various design and other licensing-based compliance matters, including the timely submittal by southern nuclear of the itaac documentation for each unit and the related reviews and approvals by the nrc necessary to support nrc authorization to load fuel, may arise, which may result in additional license amendments or require other resolution. as part of the aggressive site work plan, in january 2020, southern nuclear notified the nrc of its intent to load fuel in 2020. if any license amendment requests or other licensing-based compliance issues are not resolved in a timely manner, there may be delays in the project schedule that could result in increased costs. the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time. however, any extension of the regulatory-approved project schedule is currently estimated to result in additional base capital costs of approximately $50 million per month, based on georgia power's ownership interests, and afudc of approximately $12 million per month. while georgia power is not precluded from seeking recovery of any future capital cost forecast increase, management will ultimately determine whether or ii-92 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report not to seek recovery. any further changes to the capital cost forecast that are not expected to be recoverable through regulated rates will be required to be charged to income and such charges could be material. given the significant complexity involved in estimating the future costs to complete construction and start-up of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 and the significant management judgment necessary to assess the related uncertainties surrounding future rate recovery of any projected cost increases, as well as the potential impact on results of operations and cash flows, southern company and georgia power consider these items to be critical accounting estimates. see note 2 to the financial statements under " georgia power nuclear construction " for additional information. accounting for income taxes (southern company, mississippi power, southern power, and southern company gas) the consolidated income tax provision and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, as well as any unrecognized tax benefits and valuation allowances, require significant judgment and estimates. these estimates are supported by historical tax return data, reasonable projections of taxable income, and interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations across multiple taxing jurisdictions. the effective tax rate reflects the statutory tax rates and calculated apportionments for the various states in which the southern company system operates. on behalf of its subsidiaries, southern company files a consolidated federal income tax return and various state income tax returns, some of which are combined or unitary. under a joint consolidated income tax allocation agreement, each southern company subsidiary's current and deferred tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis and no subsidiary is allocated more current expense than would be paid if it filed a separate income tax return. certain deductions and credits can be limited or utilized at the consolidated or combined level resulting in nol and tax credit carryforwards that would not otherwise result on a stand-alone basis. utilization of nol and tax credit carryforwards and the assessment of valuation allowances are based on significant judgment and extensive analysis of southern company's and its subsidiaries' current financial position and results of operations, including currently available information about future years, to estimate when future taxable income will be realized. current and deferred state income tax liabilities and assets are estimated based on laws of multiple states that determine the income to be apportioned to their jurisdictions. states utilize various formulas to calculate the apportionment of taxable income, primarily using sales, assets, or payroll within the jurisdiction compared to the consolidated totals. in addition, each state varies as to whether a stand-alone, combined, or unitary filing methodology is required. the calculation of deferred state taxes considers apportionment factors and filing methodologies that are expected to apply in future years. the apportionments and methodologies which are ultimately finalized in a manner inconsistent with expectations could have a material effect on the financial statements of the applicable registrants. given the significant judgment involved in estimating nol and tax credit carryforwards and multi-state apportionments for all subsidiaries, the applicable registrants consider deferred income tax liabilities and assets to be critical accounting estimates. asset retirement obligations (southern company, alabama power, georgia power, mississippi power, and southern company gas) aros are computed as the present value of the estimated costs for an asset's future retirement and are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. the estimated costs are capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset's useful life. in the absence of quoted market prices, aros are estimated using present value techniques in which estimates of future cash outlays associated with the asset retirements are discounted using a credit-adjusted risk-free rate. estimates of the timing and amounts of future cash outlays are based on projections of when and how the assets will be retired and the cost of future removal activities. the aro liabilities for the traditional electric operating companies primarily relate to facilities that are subject to the ccr rule and the related state rules, principally ash ponds. in addition, alabama power and georgia power have retirement obligations related to the decommissioning of nuclear facilities (alabama power's plant farley and georgia power's ownership interests in plant hatch and plant vogtle units 1 and 2). the traditional electric operating companies also have aros related to various landfill sites, asbestos removal, and underground storage tanks, as well as, for alabama power, disposal of polychlorinated biphenyls in certain transformers and sulfur hexafluoride gas in certain substation breakers, for georgia power, gypsum cells and restoration of land at the end of long-term land leases for solar facilities, and for mississippi power, mine reclamation and water wells. the traditional electric operating companies and southern company gas also have identified other retirement obligations, such as obligations related to certain electric transmission and distribution facilities, certain asbestos-containing material within long-term assets not subject to ongoing repair and maintenance activities, certain wireless communication towers, the disposal of polychlorinated biphenyls in certain transformers, leasehold improvements, equipment on customer property, and property associated with the southern company system's rail lines and natural gas pipelines. however, liabilities for the removal of these ii-93 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report assets have not been recorded because the settlement timing for certain retirement obligations related to these assets is indeterminable and, therefore, the fair value of the retirement obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. a liability for these retirement obligations will be recognized when sufficient information becomes available to support a reasonable estimation of the aro. the cost estimates for aros related to the disposal of ccr are based on information using various assumptions related to closure and post-closure costs, timing of future cash outlays, inflation and discount rates, and the potential methods for complying with the ccr rule and the related state rules. the traditional electric operating companies expect to update their aro cost estimates periodically as additional information related to these assumptions becomes available. see note 6 to the financial statements for additional information, including increases to aros related to ash ponds recorded during 2019 by certain registrants. given the significant judgment involved in estimating aros, the applicable registrants consider the liabilities for aros to be critical accounting estimates. pension and other postretirement benefits (southern company, alabama power, georgia power, mississippi power, and southern company gas) the applicable registrants' calculations of pension and other postretirement benefits expense are dependent on a number of assumptions. these assumptions include discount rates, healthcare cost trend rates, expected long-term rate of return (lrr) on plan assets, mortality rates, expected salary and wage increases, and other factors. components of pension and other postretirement benefits expense include interest and service cost on the pension and other postretirement benefit plans, expected return on plan assets, and amortization of certain unrecognized costs and obligations. actual results that differ from the assumptions utilized are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect recognized expense and the recorded obligation in future periods. while the applicable registrants believe the assumptions used are appropriate, differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions would affect their pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations. key elements in determining the applicable registrants' pension and other postretirement benefit expense are the lrr and the discount rate used to measure the benefit plan obligations and the periodic benefit plan expense for future periods. for purposes of determining the applicable registrants' liabilities related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans, southern company discounts the future related cash flows using a single-point discount rate for each plan developed from the weighted average of market-observed yields for high quality fixed income securities with maturities that correspond to expected benefit payments. the discount rate assumption impacts both the service cost and non-service costs components of net periodic benefit costs as well as the projected benefit obligations. the lrr on pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets is based on southern company's investment strategy, historical experience, and expectations that consider external actuarial advice, and represents the average rate of earnings expected over the long term on the assets invested to provide for anticipated future benefit payments. southern company determines the amount of the expected return on plan assets component of non-service costs by applying the lrr of various asset classes to southern company's target asset allocation. the lrr only impacts the non-service costs component of net periodic benefit costs for the following year and is set annually at the beginning of the year. for 2019, the lrr assumption for qualified pension plan assets was reduced from 7.95% to 7.75% for purposes of determining net periodic pension expense as a result of changes in the economic outlook used in estimating the expected returns as of december 31, 2018 . as a result of the decrease in the lrr, the non-service costs component of net periodic pension expense increased by $24 million for the southern company system in 2019. see the table below for the impact on each registrant. ii-94 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report for 2020, net periodic pension expense will be impacted by two factors: a change in the approach used to determine the lrr assumption and cash contributions totaling $1.1 billion to the qualified pension plan made in december 2019. historically, southern company has set the lrr assumption using asset return modeling based on geometric returns that reflect the compound average returns for dependent annual periods. beginning in 2020, southern company will set the lrr assumption using an arithmetic mean which represents the expected simple average return to be earned by the pension plan assets over any one year. southern company believes the use of the arithmetic mean is more compatible with the lrr's function of estimating a single year's investment return. excluding the additional pension contribution in december 2019, the change in the lrr assumption will reduce the non-service costs component of net periodic pension expense by $78 million for the southern company system in 2020. see the table below for the impact on each registrant. the contributions in 2019 will further reduce expense by $88 million for the southern company system in 2020. southern company alabama power georgia power mississippi power southern company gas (in millions) increase (decrease) in pension expense: 2019 $ 24 $ 5 $ 8 $ 1 $ 2 2020 (78 ) (18 ) (25 ) (4 ) (7 ) the following table illustrates the sensitivity to changes in the applicable registrants' long-term assumptions with respect to the discount rate, salary increases, and the long-term rate of return on plan assets: increase/(decrease) in 25 basis point change in: total benefit expense for 2020 projected obligation for pension plan at december 31, 2019 projected obligation for other postretirement benefit plans at december 31, 2019 (in millions) discount rate: southern company $41/$(39) $549/$(518) $57/$(54) alabama power $10/$(10) $131/$(123) $14/$(13) georgia power $12/$(11) $166/$(156) $21/$(20) mississippi power $2/$(2) $25/$(23) $2/$(2) southern company gas $1/$(1) $38/$(36) $6/$(6) salaries: southern company $23/$(22) $118/$(113) $ /$ alabama power $6/$(6) $33/$(32) $ /$ georgia power $6/$(6) $34/$(33) $ /$ mississippi power $1/$(1) $5/$(5) $ /$ southern company gas $1/$(1) $3/$(3) $ /$ long-term return on plan assets: southern company $35/$(35) n/a n/a alabama power $9/$(9) n/a n/a georgia power $11/$(11) n/a n/a mississippi power $2/$(2) n/a n/a southern company gas $3/$(3) n/a n/a see note 11 to the financial statements for additional information regarding pension and other postretirement benefits. ii-95 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report asset impairment (southern company, southern power, and southern company gas) goodwill (southern company and southern company gas) the acquisition method of accounting requires the assets acquired and liabilities assumed to be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective estimated fair values. the applicable registrants have recognized goodwill as of the date of their acquisitions, as a residual over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired. goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis in the fourth quarter of the year as well as on an interim basis as events and changes in circumstances occur, including, but not limited to, a significant change in operating performance, the business climate, legal or regulatory factors, or a planned sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business. a reporting unit is the operating segment, or a business one level below the operating segment (a component), if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management. components are aggregated if they have similar economic characteristics. as part of the impairment tests, the applicable registrant may perform an initial qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is less than its carrying amount before applying the quantitative goodwill impairment test. if the applicable registrant elects to perform the qualitative assessment, it evaluates relevant events and circumstances, including but not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, financial performance, entity specific events, and events specific to each reporting unit. if the applicable registrant determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, or it elects not to perform a qualitative assessment, it compares the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value to determine if the fair value is greater than its carrying value. goodwill for southern company and southern company gas was $5.3 billion and $5.0 billion , respectively, at december 31, 2019 . for its 2019 and 2018 annual impairment tests, southern company gas performed the qualitative assessment and determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of all of its reporting units with goodwill exceeded their carrying amounts, and therefore no quantitative analysis was required. for its 2017 annual impairment test, southern company gas performed the quantitative assessment, which resulted in the fair value of all of its reporting units that have goodwill exceeding their carrying value. for its annual impairment tests for powersecure, southern company performed the quantitative assessment, which resulted in the fair value of goodwill at powersecure exceeding its carrying value in all years presented. however, southern company recorded goodwill impairment charges totaling $34 million in 2019 as a result of its decision to sell certain powersecure business units. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company " for additional information. the judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can significantly impact the applicable registrant's results of operations. fair values and useful lives are determined based on, among other factors, the expected future period of benefit of the asset, the various characteristics of the asset, and projected cash flows. as the determination of an asset's fair value and useful life involves management making certain estimates and because these estimates form the basis for the determination of whether or not an impairment charge should be recorded, the applicable registrants consider these estimates to be critical accounting estimates. see note 1 to the financial statements under " goodwill and other intangible assets and liabilities " for additional information regarding the applicable registrants' goodwill. long-lived assets (southern company, southern power, and southern company gas) impairments of long-lived assets of the traditional electric utilities and natural gas distribution utilities are generally related to specific regulatory disallowances. the applicable registrants assess their other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. if an indicator exists, the asset is tested for recoverability by comparing the asset carrying value to the sum of the undiscounted expected future cash flows directly attributable to the asset's use and eventual disposition. if the estimate of undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying value of the asset, the fair value of the asset is determined and a loss is recorded equal to the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the asset. in addition, when assets are identified as held for sale, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent the carrying value of the assets or asset group exceeds their fair value less cost to sell. a high degree of judgment is required in developing estimates related to these evaluations, which are based on projections of various factors, some of which have been quite volatile in recent years. southern power's investments in long-lived assets are primarily generation assets, whether in service or under construction. excluding the natural gas distribution utilities, southern company gas' investments in long-lived assets are primarily natural gas transportation and storage facility assets, whether in service or under construction. in addition, exclusive of the traditional electric operating companies and natural gas distribution utilities, southern company's investments in long-lived assets also include investments in leveraged leases. ii-96 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report for southern power, examples of impairment indicators could include significant changes in construction schedules, current period losses combined with a history of losses or a projection of continuing losses, a significant decrease in market prices, the inability to remarket generating capacity for an extended period, the unplanned termination of a customer contract or the inability of a customer to perform under the terms of the contract, or the inability to deploy wind turbine equipment to a development project. for southern company gas, examples of impairment indicators could include, but are not limited to, significant changes in the u.s. natural gas storage market, construction schedules, current period losses combined with a history of losses or a projection of continuing losses, a significant decrease in market prices, the inability to renew or extend customer contracts or the inability of a customer to perform under the terms of the contract, attrition rates, or the inability to deploy a development project. for southern company's investments in leveraged leases, impairment indicators include changes in estimates of future rental payments to be received under the lease as well as the residual value of the leased asset at the end of the lease. as the determination of the expected future cash flows generated from an asset, an asset's fair value, and useful life involves management making certain estimates and because these estimates form the basis for the determination of whether or not an impairment charge should be recorded, the applicable registrants consider these estimates to be critical accounting estimates. see note 3 to the financial statements under " other matters " and note 15 to the financial statements for information on certain assets recently evaluated for impairment. derivatives and hedging activities (southern company and southern company gas) determining whether a contract meets the definition of a derivative instrument, contains an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation, or qualifies for hedge accounting treatment is complex. the treatment of a single contract may vary from period to period depending upon accounting elections, changes in the applicable registrant's assessment of the likelihood of future hedged transactions, or new interpretations of accounting guidance. as a result, judgment is required in determining the appropriate accounting treatment. in addition, the estimated fair value of derivative instruments may change significantly from period to period depending upon market conditions, and changes in hedge effectiveness may impact the accounting treatment. derivative instruments (including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) are recorded on the balance sheets as either assets or liabilities measured at their fair value. if the transaction qualifies for, and is designated as, a normal purchase or normal sale, it is exempt from fair value accounting treatment and is, instead, subject to traditional accrual accounting. the applicable registrant utilizes market data or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the derivative asset or liability, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent in the inputs of the valuation technique. changes in the derivatives' fair value are recognized concurrently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. if the derivatives meet those criteria, derivative gains and losses offset related results of the hedged item in the income statement in the case of a fair value hedge, or gains and losses are deferred in oci on the balance sheets until the hedged transaction affects earnings in the case of a cash flow hedge. additionally, a company is required to formally designate a derivative as a hedge as well as document and assess the effectiveness of derivatives associated with transactions that receive hedge accounting treatment. southern company gas uses derivative instruments primarily to reduce the impact to its results of operations due to the risk of changes in the price of natural gas and, to a lesser extent, southern company gas hedges against warmer-than-normal weather and interest rates. the fair value of natural gas derivative instruments used to manage exposure to changing natural gas prices reflects the estimated amounts that southern company gas would receive or pay to terminate or close the contracts at the reporting date, taking into account the current unrealized gains or losses on open contracts. for derivatives utilized at gas marketing services and wholesale gas services that are not designated as accounting hedges, changes in fair value are reported as gains or losses in results of operations in the period of change. gas marketing services records derivative gains or losses arising from cash flow hedges in oci and reclassifies them into earnings in the same period that the underlying hedged item is recognized in earnings. derivative assets and liabilities are classified based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. the assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment and may affect the valuation of fair value assets and liabilities and their placement within the fair value hierarchy. the determination of the fair value of the derivative instruments incorporates various required factors. these factors include: the creditworthiness of the counterparties involved and the impact of credit enhancements (such as cash deposits and letters of credit); events specific to a given counterparty; and the impact of nonperformance risk on liabilities. a significant change in the underlying market prices or pricing assumptions used in pricing derivative assets or liabilities may result in a significant financial statement impact. ii-97 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report given the assumptions used in pricing the derivative asset or liability, southern company and southern company gas consider the valuation of derivative assets and liabilities a critical accounting estimate. see financial condition and liquidity " market price risk " herein and note 14 to the financial statements for more information. revenue recognition (southern power) southern power's power sale transactions, which include ppas, are classified in one of four general categories: leases, non-derivatives or normal sale derivatives, derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, and derivatives not designated as hedges, as described further below. for more information on derivative transactions, see financial condition and liquidity "market price risk" herein and notes 1 and 14 to the financial statements. southern power's revenues are dependent upon significant judgments used to determine the appropriate transaction classification, which must be documented upon the inception of each contract. lease transactions southern power considers the following factors to determine whether the sales contract is a lease: assessing whether specific property is explicitly or implicitly identified in the agreement; determining whether the fulfillment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of the identified property; and assessing whether the arrangement conveys to the counterparty substantially all of the economic benefits and the right to direct the use of the asset. if the contract meets the above criteria for a lease, southern power performs further analysis as to whether the lease is classified as operating, financing, or sales-type. all of southern power's power sales contracts that are determined to be leases are accounted for as operating leases and the capacity revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract and is included in southern power's operating revenues. energy revenues and other contingent revenues are recognized in the period the energy is delivered or the service is rendered. see note 9 to the financial statements for additional information. non-derivative and normal sale derivative transactions if the power sales contract is not classified as a lease, southern power further considers the following factors to determine proper classification: assessing whether the contract meets the definition of a derivative; assessing whether the contract meets the definition of a capacity contract; assessing the probability at inception and throughout the term of the individual contract that the contract will result in physical delivery; and ensuring that the contract quantities do not exceed available generating capacity (including purchased capacity). contracts that do not meet the definition of a derivative or are designated as normal sales (i.e. capacity contracts which provide for the sale of electricity that involve physical delivery in quantities within southern power's available generating capacity) are accounted for as executory contracts. for contracts that have a capacity charge, the revenue is generally recognized in the period that it becomes billable. revenues related to energy and ancillary services are recognized in the period the energy is delivered or the service is rendered. see note 4 to the financial statements for additional information. cash flow hedge transactions southern power further considers the following in designating other derivative contracts for the sale of electricity as cash flow hedges of anticipated sale transactions: identifying the hedging instrument, the forecasted hedged transaction, and the nature of the risk being hedged; and assessing hedge effectiveness at inception and throughout the contract term. these contracts are accounted for on a fair value basis and are recorded in aoci over the life of the contract. realized gains and losses are then recognized in operating revenues as incurred. derivative (non-hedge) transactions contracts for sales of electricity, which meet the definition of a derivative and that either do not qualify or are not designated as normal sales or as cash flow hedges, are accounted for on a fair value basis and are recorded in operating revenues. ii-98 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report acquisition accounting (southern power) southern power may acquire generation assets as part of its overall growth strategy. at the time of an acquisition, southern power will assess if these assets and activities meet the definition of a business. for acquisitions that meet the definition of a business, the purchase price, including any contingent consideration, is allocated based on the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed (including any intangible assets, primarily related to acquired ppas). assets acquired that do not meet the definition of a business are accounted for as an asset acquisition. the purchase price of each asset acquisition is allocated based on the relative fair value of assets acquired. determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management judgment and southern power may engage independent valuation experts to assist in this process. fair values are determined by using market participant assumptions, and typically include the timing and amounts of future cash flows, incurred construction costs, the nature of acquired contracts, discount rates, power market prices, and expected asset lives. any due diligence or transition costs incurred by southern power for potential or successful acquisitions are expensed as incurred. contingent consideration primarily relates to fixed amounts due to the seller once the facility is placed in service. for contingent consideration with variable payments, southern power fair values the arrangement with any changes recorded in the consolidated statements of income. see note 13 to the financial statements for additional fair value information and note 15 to the financial statements for additional information on recent acquisitions. variable interest entities (southern power) southern power enters into partnerships with varying ownership structures. upon entering into such arrangements, membership interests and other variable interests are evaluated to determine if the legal entity is a vie. if the legal entity is a vie, southern power will assess if it has both the power to direct the activities of the vie that most significantly impact the vie's economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the vie that could potentially be significant to the vie, making it the primary beneficiary. making this determination may require significant management judgment. if southern power is the primary beneficiary, the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of the entity are consolidated. if southern power is not the primary beneficiary, the legal entity is generally accounted for under the equity method of accounting. southern power reconsiders its conclusions as to whether the legal entity is a vie and whether it is the primary beneficiary for events that impact the rights of variable interests, such as ownership changes in membership interests. southern power has partial ownership in certain legal entities for which the contractual provisions represent profit-sharing arrangements because the allocations of cash distributions and tax benefits are not based on fixed ownership percentages. for these arrangements, the noncontrolling interest is accounted for under a balance sheet approach utilizing the hlbv method. the hlbv method calculates each partner's share of income based on the change in net equity the partner can legally claim in a hlbv at the end of the period compared to the beginning of the period. contingent obligations (all registrants) the registrants are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, as well as other factors and conditions that subject them to environmental, litigation, and other risks. see future earnings potential herein and notes 2 and 3 to the financial statements for more information regarding certain of these contingencies. the registrants periodically evaluate their exposure to such risks and record reserves for those matters where a non-tax-related loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable. the adequacy of reserves can be significantly affected by external events or conditions that can be unpredictable; thus, the ultimate outcome of such matters could materially affect the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of the registrants. recently issued accounting standards see note 1 to the financial statements under " recently adopted accounting standards " for additional information. in 2016, the fasb issued asu no. 2016-02, leases (topic 842) (asu 2016-02). asu 2016-02 requires lessees to recognize on the balance sheet a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for all leases. asu 2016-02 also changes the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expense associated with leases and provides clarification regarding the identification of certain components of contracts that would represent a lease. the accounting required by lessors is relatively unchanged and there is no change to the accounting for existing leveraged leases. the registrants adopted the new standard effective january 1, 2019. see note 9 to the financial statements for additional information and related disclosures. ii-99 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report financial condition and liquidity overview the financial condition of each registrant remained stable at december 31, 2019 . the registrants' cash requirements primarily consist of funding ongoing operations, including unconsolidated subsidiaries, as well as common stock dividends, capital expenditures, and debt maturities. southern power's cash requirements also include distributions to noncontrolling interests. capital expenditures and other investing activities for the traditional electric operating companies include investments to meet projected long-term demand requirements, including to build new generation facilities, to maintain existing generation facilities, to comply with environmental regulations including adding environmental modifications to certain existing generating units and closures of ash ponds, to expand and improve transmission and distribution facilities, and for restoration following major storms. southern power's capital expenditures and other investing activities may include acquisitions or new construction associated with its overall growth strategy and to maintain its existing generation fleet's performance. southern company gas' capital expenditures and other investing activities include investments to meet projected long-term demand requirements, to maintain existing natural gas distribution systems as well as to update and expand these systems, and to comply with environmental regulations. operating cash flows provide a substantial portion of the registrants' cash needs. during 2019, southern power utilized tax credits, which provided $734 million in operating cash flows. for the three-year period from 2020 through 2022 , each registrant's projected stock dividends, capital expenditures, and debt maturities, as well as distributions to noncontrolling interests for southern power, are expected to exceed its operating cash flows. southern company plans to finance future cash needs in excess of its operating cash flows primarily by accessing borrowings from financial institutions and issuing debt and hybrid securities in the capital markets. each subsidiary registrant plans to finance its future cash needs in excess of its operating cash flows primarily through external securities issuances, borrowings from financial institutions, and equity contributions from southern company. in addition, georgia power plans to utilize borrowings through the ffb and southern power plans to utilize tax equity partnership contributions. the registrants plan to use commercial paper to manage seasonal variations in operating cash flows and for other working capital needs and continue to monitor their access to short-term and long-term capital markets as well as their bank credit arrangements to meet future capital and liquidity needs. see " sources of capital ," " financing activities ," " capital requirements ," and " contractual obligations " herein for additional information. the registrants' investments in their qualified pension plans and alabama power's and georgia power's investments in their nuclear decommissioning trust funds increased in value at december 31, 2019 as compared to december 31, 2018 . in december 2019, the registrants voluntarily contributed the following amounts to the qualified pension plan: southern company alabama power georgia power mississippi power southern power southern company gas (in millions) contributions to qualified pension plan $ 1,136 $ 362 $ 200 $ 54 $ 24 $ 145 no mandatory contributions to the qualified pension plans are anticipated during 2020 . see " contractual obligations " herein and notes 6 and 11 to the financial statements under " nuclear decommissioning " and " pension plans ," respectively, for additional information. at the end of 2019 , the market price of southern company's common stock was $63.70 per share (based on the closing price as reported on the nyse) and the book value was $26.11 per share, representing a market-to-book value ratio of 244% , compared to $43.92 , $23.91 , and 184% , respectively, at the end of 2018 . ii-100 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report analysis of cash flows net cash flows provided from (used for) operating, investing, and financing activities in 2019 and 2018 are presented in the following table: net cash provided from (used for): southern company alabama power georgia power mississippi power southern power southern company gas (in millions) 2019 operating activities $ 5,781 $ 1,779 $ 2,907 $ 339 $ 1,385 $ 1,067 investing activities (3,392 ) (1,963 ) (3,885 ) (263 ) (167 ) (1,386 ) financing activities (1,930 ) 765 918 (83 ) (1,120 ) 298 2018 operating activities $ 6,945 $ 1,881 $ 2,769 $ 804 $ 631 $ 764 investing activities (5,760 ) (2,289 ) (3,109 ) (232 ) (227 ) 998 financing activities (1,813 ) 177 (400 ) (527 ) (363 ) (1,770 ) fluctuations in cash flows from financing activities vary from year to year based on capital needs and the maturity or redemption of securities. southern company net cash provided from operating activities decreased $1.2 billion in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily due to the voluntary contribution to the qualified pension plan and the timing of vendor payments. the net cash used for investing activities in 2019 and 2018 was primarily due to the traditional electric operating companies' construction of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, including installation of equipment to comply with environmental standards, and capital expenditures for southern company gas' infrastructure replacement programs, partially offset by proceeds from the sale transactions described in note 15 to the financial statements, which totaled $5.1 billion and $3.0 billion in 2019 and 2018 , respectively. the net cash used for financing activities in 2019 was primarily due to common stock dividend payments and net repayments of short-term bank debt and commercial paper, partially offset by net issuances of long-term debt and the issuance of common stock. the net cash used for financing activities in 2018 was primarily due to net redemptions and repurchases of long-term debt, common stock dividend payments, and a decrease in commercial paper borrowings, partially offset by net issuances of short-term bank debt, proceeds from southern power's sales of non-controlling equity interests in entities indirectly owning substantially all of its solar facilities and eight of its wind facilities, and the issuance of common stock. alabama power net cash provided from operating activities decreased $ 102 million in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily due to the voluntary contribution to the qualified pension plan, partially offset by the impacts of customer bill credits issued in 2018 related to the tax reform legislation and increased fuel cost recovery. the net cash used for investing activities in 2019 and 2018 was primarily due to gross property additions. the net cash provided from financing activities in 2019 was primarily due to capital contributions from southern company and a long-term debt issuance, partially offset by payments of common stock dividends and a maturity of long-term debt. the net cash provided from financing activities in 2018 was primarily due to issuances of long-term debt and additional capital contributions from southern company, partially offset by the payment of common stock dividends and a maturity of long-term debt. georgia power net cash provided from operating activities increase d $138 million in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily due to lower customer refunds and increased fuel cost recovery, partially offset by the voluntary contribution to the qualified pension plan. ii-101 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report the net cash used for investing activities in 2019 and 2018 was primarily due to gross property additions, including a total of $2.5 billion related to the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. see future earnings potential " construction programs nuclear construction " herein for additional information on construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. the net cash provided from financing activities in 2019 was primarily due to borrowings from the ffb for construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, issuances of senior notes, capital contributions from southern company, and pollution control revenue bonds reoffered to the public, partially offset by payment of common stock dividends and the maturity of senior notes. the net cash used for financing activities in 2018 was primarily due to the redemption and repurchase of senior notes, payment of common stock dividends, and pollution control revenue bond repurchases, partially offset by capital contributions from southern company. mississippi power net cash provided from operating activities decreased $465 million in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily due to higher income tax refunds in 2018 as a result of the tax impact of the abandonment of the kemper igcc and the voluntary contribution to the qualified pension plan in 2019. the net cash used for investing activities in 2019 and 2018 was primarily due to gross property additions. the net cash used for financing activities in 2019 was primarily due to a return of capital to southern company and the redemption of senior notes, partially offset by capital contributions from southern company and pollution control revenue bonds reoffered to the public. the net cash used for financing activities in 2018 was primarily due to the redemption of preferred stock, long-term bank debt, short-term borrowings, and senior notes, partially offset by the issuance of senior notes and short-term borrowings. southern power net cash provided from operating activities increased $754 million in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily due to the utilization of federal itcs totaling $734 million in 2019. at december 31, 2019 , southern power had $1.4 billion of unutilized itcs and ptcs which are expected to be fully utilized by 2024. see future earnings potential " income tax matters tax credits " herein for additional information. the net cash used for investing activities in 2019 was primarily due to southern power's investment in dsgp and ongoing construction activities, largely offset by proceeds from the sales of plant nacogdoches and certain wind turbine equipment. the net cash used for investing activities in 2018 was primarily due to the construction of generating facilities and payments for renewable acquisitions, partially offset by proceeds from the disposition of the florida plants. see future earnings potential " acquisitions and dispositions " and " construction programs " herein and note 15 to the financial statements for additional information. the net cash used for financing activities in 2019 was primarily due to returns of capital to southern company, the repayment at maturity of senior notes, payments of common stock dividends, and distributions to noncontrolling interests, partially offset by proceeds from net issuances of commercial paper. the net cash used for financing activities in 2018 was primarily due to returns of capital to southern company, payments of common stock dividends, and distributions to noncontrolling interests, partially offset by capital contributions from noncontrolling interests. southern company gas net cash provided from operating activities increased $303 million in 2019 as compared to 2018 primarily due to the timing of collection of customer receivables and lower income tax payments, partially offset by the timing of vendor payments and the voluntary contribution to the qualified pension plan. the net cash used for investing activities in 2019 was primarily due to gross property additions related to utility capital expenditures and infrastructure investments recovered through replacement programs at gas distribution operations and capital contributed to equity method pipeline investments, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of triton and capital distributions in excess of earnings from equity method pipeline investments. the net cash provided from investing activities in 2018 was primarily due to proceeds from the southern company gas dispositions, partially offset by gross property additions primarily related to utility capital expenditures and pre-approved rider and infrastructure investments recovered through replacement programs at gas distribution operations as well as net capital contributions to equity method pipeline investments. the net cash provided from financing activities in 2019 was primarily due to capital contributions from southern company and proceeds from the issuance of first mortgage bonds, partially offset by the redemption of long-term debt and payments of common stock dividends. the net cash used for financing activities in 2018 was primarily due to payments of common stock dividends to ii-102 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report southern company, return of capital to southern company, redemptions of gas facility revenue bonds and senior notes, and repayments of commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt, partially offset by debt issuances and capital contributions from southern company. significant balance sheet changes southern company significant balance sheet changes in 2019 for southern company included: decreases in assets and liabilities held for sale of $5.0 billion and $3.3 billion , respectively, and an increase of $2.7 billion in total stockholders' equity primarily related to the sale of gulf power; an increase of $2.3 billion in total property, plant, and equipment primarily related to the traditional electric operating companies' construction of electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, including installation of equipment to comply with environmental standards, net of $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion reclassified to other regulatory assets and regulatory assets associated with aros, respectively, as a result of generating unit retirements at alabama power and georgia power; an increase in other regulatory assets of $1.8 billion primarily related to the $1.2 billion reclassification from property, plant, and equipment discussed above and a $0.8 billion increase in regulatory assets associated with retiree benefit plans primarily resulting from a decrease in the overall discount rate used to calculate benefit obligations; increases in operating lease right-of-use assets, net of amortization and operating lease obligations, each totaling $1.8 billion , recorded upon the adoption of asc 842; an increase of $1.4 billion in regulatory assets associated with aros primarily related to the $1.0 billion reclassification from property, plant, and equipment discussed above and aro revisions at alabama power and mississippi power related to the ccr rule; an increase of $1.3 billion in accumulated deferred income taxes primarily related to the expected utilization of tax credit carryforwards in the 2019 tax year as a result of increased taxable income from the sale of gulf power; and a decrease of $0.9 billion in notes payable related to net repayments of short-term bank debt and commercial paper. see notes 2 , 5 , 6 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , and 15 to the financial statements for additional information. alabama power significant balance sheet changes in 2019 for alabama power included: an increase of $1.5 billion in total common stockholder's equity primarily due to a $1.2 billion capital contribution from southern company; increases of $0.9 billion in regulatory assets associated with aros and $0.7 billion in other regulatory assets, deferred primarily due to the impacts of retiring and reclassifying plant gorgas units 8, 9, and 10; an increase of $0.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents; and an increase of $0.3 billion in aros, deferred primarily due to an increase in the aro estimate related to ash pond facilities. see notes 2 and 6 to the financial statements for additional information. ii-103 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report georgia power significant balance sheet changes in 2019 for georgia power included: an increase of $1.8 billion in long-term debt (including securities due within one year) primarily due to borrowings from the ffb for construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4, issuances of senior notes, and pollution control revenue bonds being reoffered to the public; an increase of $1.6 billion in property, plant, and equipment to comply with environmental standards and the construction of generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, net of approximately $0.8 billion reclassified to regulatory assets due to the retirement of certain generating units as approved in the georgia power 2019 irp; increases in operating lease right-of-use assets, net of amortization and operating lease obligations, each totaling $1.4 billion , recorded upon the adoption of asc 842; an increase of $1.2 billion in regulatory assets primarily due to the $0.8 billion reclassification from property, plant, and equipment discussed above and $0.2 billion associated with retiree benefit plans primarily as a result of a decrease in the overall discount rate used to calculate benefit obligations; and an increase of $742 million in total common stockholder's equity primarily due to capital contributions from southern company. see notes 2 , 8 , 9 , and 11 to the financial statements for additional information. mississippi power significant balance sheet changes in 2019 for mississippi power included: a decrease of $231 million in long-term debt, primarily due to the reclassification of $249 million of senior notes to securities due within one year and the redemption of $25 million of senior notes, partially offset by $43 million in pollution control revenue bonds reoffered to the public; an increase of $107 million in other property and investments primarily due to a new tolling arrangement accounted for as a sales-type lease; increases of $67 million in regulatory assets associated with aros and $31 million in aros, deferred primarily due to aro revisions; and a net change of $57 million in accumulated deferred income tax assets and liabilities primarily due to the recognition of a tax loss on the co 2 pipeline transfer and the alternative minimum tax carryforward from prior years. see notes 2, 6, 8, 9, and 10 to the financial statements for additional information. southern power significant balance sheet changes in 2019 for southern power included: a $662 million decrease in stockholders' equity due to returns of capital to southern company; a $635 million decrease in accumulated deferred income tax assets primarily related to the utilization of tax credits for the 2019 tax year; a $619 million decrease in long-term debt (including securities due within one year) related to the maturity of $600 million in senior notes; a $449 million increase in notes payable due to net issuances of commercial paper; and increases in operating lease right-of-use assets, net of amortization and operating lease obligations totaling $369 million and $376 million, respectively, recorded upon the adoption of asc 842. see notes 8, 9, and 10 to the financial statements for additional information. southern company gas significant balance sheet changes in 2019 for southern company gas included: an increase of $950 million in property, plant, and equipment primarily due to utility capital expenditures and infrastructure investments recovered through replacement programs, partially offset by $115 million of asset impairment charges; additional paid-in-capital of $841 million primarily related to capital contributions from southern company; decreases of $373 million and $414 million in energy marketing receivables and payables, respectively, due to lower natural gas prices and volumes of natural gas sold; ii-104 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report a $287 million decrease in equity investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries primarily due to $151 million associated with pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline reclassified to assets held for sale, as well as distributions from sng and the sale of triton; a $203 million increase in accumulated deferred income taxes primarily due to accelerated tax depreciation and other timing differences; reclassification of $171 million in total assets held for sale associated with pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline; a $95 million decrease in long-term debt primarily due to the redemption of $300 million in senior notes and the repayment of $50 million in first mortgage bonds, partially offset by the issuance of $300 million in first mortgage bonds; and increases of $93 million in operating right-of-use assets and $92 million in operating lease obligations, respectively, related to the adoption of asc 842. see notes 3, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 15 to the financial statements for additional information. sources of capital southern company intends to meet its future capital needs through operating cash flows, borrowings from financial institutions, and debt and equity issuances in the capital markets. equity capital can be provided from any combination of southern company's stock plans, private placements, or public offerings. southern company does not expect to issue any equity in the capital markets through 2024. the subsidiary registrants plan to obtain the funds to meet their future capital needs from sources similar to those they used in the past, which were primarily from operating cash flows, external securities issuances, borrowings from financial institutions, and equity contributions from southern company. in addition, georgia power plans to utilize borrowings from the ffb, as discussed further in note 8 to the financial statements under " long-term debt doe loan guarantee borrowings ," southern power plans to utilize tax equity partnership contributions, as discussed further herein, and southern company gas plans to utilize proceeds from the pending sale of its interests in pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline, as discussed further in note 15 to the financial statements under " southern company gas proposed sale of pivotal lng and atlantic coast pipeline ." the amount, type, and timing of any financings in 2020 , as well as in subsequent years, will be contingent on investment opportunities and the registrants' capital requirements and will depend upon prevailing market conditions, regulatory approvals (for the subsidiary registrants), and other factors. see " capital requirements " herein for additional information. southern power utilizes tax equity partnerships as one of its financing sources, where the tax partner takes significantly all of the federal tax benefits. these tax equity partnerships are consolidated in southern power's financial statements and are accounted for using hlbv methodology to allocate partnership gains and losses. during 2019, southern power obtained tax equity funding for the wildhorse mountain wind project and received proceeds of $97 million. see notes 1 and 15 to the financial statements under " general " and " southern power ," respectively, for additional information. the issuance of securities by the traditional electric operating companies and nicor gas is generally subject to the approval of the applicable state psc or other applicable state regulatory agency. the issuance of all securities by mississippi power and short-term securities by georgia power is generally subject to regulatory approval by the ferc. additionally, with respect to the public offering of securities, southern company, the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power (excluding its subsidiaries), southern company gas capital, and southern company gas (excluding its other subsidiaries) file registration statements with the sec under the securities act of 1933, as amended (1933 act). the amounts of securities authorized by the appropriate regulatory authorities, as well as the securities registered under the 1933 act, are closely monitored and appropriate filings are made to ensure flexibility in the capital markets. the registrants generally obtain financing separately without credit support from any affiliate. see note 8 to the financial statements under " bank credit arrangements " for additional information. the southern company system does not maintain a centralized cash or money pool. therefore, funds of each company are not commingled with funds of any other company in the southern company system, except in the case of southern company gas, as described below. the traditional electric operating companies and segco may utilize a southern company subsidiary organized to issue and sell commercial paper at their request and for their benefit. proceeds from such issuances for the benefit of an individual company are loaned directly to that company. the obligations of each traditional electric operating company and segco under these arrangements are several and there is no cross-affiliate credit support. alabama power also maintains its own separate commercial paper program. southern company gas capital obtains external financing for southern company gas and its subsidiaries, other than nicor gas, which obtains financing separately without credit support from any affiliates. southern company gas maintains commercial ii-105 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report paper programs at southern company gas capital and nicor gas. nicor gas' commercial paper program supports its working capital needs as nicor gas is not permitted to make money pool loans to affiliates. all of the other southern company gas subsidiaries benefit from southern company gas capital's commercial paper program. by regulation, nicor gas is restricted, to the extent of its retained earnings balance, in the amount it can dividend or loan to affiliates and is not permitted to make money pool loans to affiliates. at december 31, 2019 , the amount of subsidiary retained earnings restricted to dividend totaled $951 million . this restriction did not impact southern company gas' ability to meet its cash obligations, nor does management expect such restriction to materially impact southern company gas' ability to meet its currently anticipated cash obligations. the registrants' current liabilities frequently exceed their current assets because of long-term debt maturities and the periodic use of short-term debt as a funding source, as well as significant seasonal fluctuations in cash needs. see note 8 to the financial statements for additional information. also see " financing activities " herein for information on issuances of long-term debt subsequent to december 31, 2019 . at december 31, 2019 , the following registrants' current liabilities exceeded their current assets, primarily as a result of securities due within one year and notes payable, as shown in the table below: at december 31, 2019 southern company (*) georgia power mississippi power southern power (in millions) current liabilities in excess of current assets $ 2,729 $ 1,902 $ 125 $ 945 securities due within one year 2,989 1,025 281 824 notes payable 2,055 365 549 (*) includes $600 million and $465 million of securities due within one year and notes payable, respectively, at the parent company. the registrants believe the need for working capital can be adequately met by utilizing operating cash flows, as well as commercial paper, lines of credit, and short-term bank notes, as market conditions permit. in addition, under certain circumstances, the subsidiary registrants may utilize equity contributions and/or loans from southern company. bank credit arrangements at december 31, 2019 , the registrants' unused committed credit arrangements with banks were as follows: at december 31, 2019 southern company parent alabama power georgia power mississippi power southern power (a) southern company gas (b) segco southern company (in millions) unused committed credit $ 1,999 $ 1,328 $ 1,733 $ 150 $ 591 $ 1,745 $ 30 $ 7,576 (a) at december 31, 2019 , southern power also had a continuing letter of credit facility for standby letters of credit, of which $23 million was unused. subsequent to december 31, 2019, southern power entered into an additional $60 million continuing letter of credit facility for standby letters of credit. southern power's subsidiaries are not parties to its bank credit arrangement or to the letter of credit facilities. (b) includes $1.245 billion and $500 million at southern company gas capital and nicor gas, respectively. subject to applicable market conditions, the registrants, nicor gas, and segco expect to renew or replace their bank credit arrangements as needed, prior to expiration. in connection therewith, the registrants, nicor gas, and segco may extend the maturity dates and/or increase or decrease the lending commitments thereunder. a portion of the unused credit with banks is allocated to provide liquidity support to the revenue bonds of the traditional electric operating companies and the commercial paper programs of the registrants, nicor gas, and segco. see note 8 to the financial statements under " bank credit arrangements " for additional information. short-term borrowings the registrants, nicor gas, and segco make short-term borrowings primarily through commercial paper programs that have the liquidity support of the committed bank credit arrangements described above. southern power's subsidiaries are not issuers or obligors under its commercial paper program. commercial paper and short-term bank term loans are included in notes payable in the balance sheets. details of the registrants' short-term borrowings were as follows: ii-106 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report short-term debt at the end of the period amount outstanding weighted average interest rate december 31, december 31, 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) southern company $ 2,055 $ 2,915 $ 2,439 2.1 % 3.1 % 1.9 % alabama power 3 3.7 georgia power 365 294 150 2.2 3.1 2.2 mississippi power 4 3.8 southern power 549 100 105 2.2 3.1 2.0 southern company gas: southern company gas capital $ 372 $ 403 $ 1,243 2.1 % 3.1 % 1.7 % nicor gas 278 247 275 1.8 3.0 1.8 southern company gas total $ 650 $ 650 $ 1,518 2.0 % 3.0 % 1.8 % short-term debt during the period (*) average amount outstanding weighted average interest rate maximum amount outstanding 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) (in millions) southern company $ 1,240 $ 3,377 $ 2,672 2.6 % 2.6 % 1.5 % $ 2,914 $ 5,447 $ 3,668 alabama power 17 27 25 2.6 2.3 1.3 190 258 223 georgia power 371 139 427 2.7 2.5 1.8 935 710 1,460 mississippi power 68 18 2.0 3.0 300 36 southern power 76 188 232 2.7 2.5 1.4 578 385 419 southern company gas: southern company gas capital $ 302 $ 520 $ 723 2.6 % 2.3 % 1.4 % $ 490 $ 1,361 $ 1,243 nicor gas 91 123 176 2.3 2.2 1.1 278 275 525 southern company gas total $ 393 $ 643 $ 899 2.5 % 2.3 % 1.4 % (*) average and maximum amounts are based upon daily balances during the 12-month periods ended december 31, 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 . ii-107 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report financing activities the following table outlines the registrants' long-term debt financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2019: company senior note issuances senior note maturities, redemptions, and repurchases revenue bond issuances and reofferings of purchased bonds revenue bond maturities, redemptions, and repurchases other long-term debt issuances other long-term debt redemptions and maturities (a) (in millions) southern company parent $ $ 2,400 $ $ $ 1,725 $ alabama power 600 200 1 georgia power 750 500 584 223 1,218 13 mississippi power 25 43 southern power 600 southern company gas 300 300 50 other 25 17 elimination (b) (7 ) southern company $ 1,350 $ 4,025 $ 627 $ 248 $ 3,243 $ 74 (a) includes reductions in finance lease obligations resulting from cash payments under finance leases. (b) represents reductions in affiliate finance lease obligations at georgia power, which are eliminated in southern company's consolidated financial statements. except as otherwise described herein, the registrants used the proceeds of debt issuances for their redemptions and maturities shown in the table above, to repay short-term indebtedness, and for general corporate purposes, including working capital. the subsidiary registrants also used the proceeds for their construction programs. in addition to any financings that may be necessary to meet capital requirements and contractual obligations, the registrants plan to continue, when economically feasible, a program to retire higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit. southern company during 2019 , southern company issued approximately 19.5 million shares of common stock through employee equity compensation plans and received proceeds of approximately $844 million . in addition, in august 2019, southern company issued 34.5 million 2019 series a equity units (equity units), initially in the form of corporate units (corporate units), at a stated amount of $50 per corporate unit, for a total stated amount of $1.725 billion. net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $1.682 billion. each corporate unit is comprised of (i) a 1/40 undivided beneficial ownership interest in $1,000 principal amount of southern company's series 2019a remarketable junior subordinated notes due 2024, (ii) a 1/40 undivided beneficial ownership interest in $1,000 principal amount of southern company's series 2019b remarketable junior subordinated notes due 2027, and (iii) a stock purchase contract, which obligates the holder to purchase from southern company, no later than august 1, 2022, a certain number of shares of southern company's common stock for $50 in cash. see note 8 to the financial statements under " equity units " for additional information. in january 2019, southern company repaid a $250 million short-term uncommitted bank credit arrangement and a $1.5 billion short-term floating rate bank loan. in 2019, southern company, through repurchases and redemptions, retired all $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of its 1.85% senior notes due july 1, 2019, $350 million aggregate principal amount of its series 2014b 2.15% senior notes due september 1, 2019, $750 million aggregate principal amount of its series 2018a floating rate notes due february 14, 2020, and $300 million aggregate principal amount of its series 2017a floating rate senior notes due september 30, 2020. subsequent to december 31, 2019, southern company issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of series 2020a 4.95% junior subordinated notes due january 30, 2080. alabama power in february 2019, alabama power repaid at maturity $200 million aggregate principal amount of series z 5.125% senior notes due february 15, 2019. ii-108 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report in september 2019, alabama power issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of series 2019a 3.45% senior notes due october 1, 2049. subsequent to december 31, 2019, alabama power received a capital contribution totaling $610 million from southern company. georgia power in march and december 2019, georgia power made borrowings under the multi-advance credit facilities related to the amended and restated loan guarantee agreement in an aggregate principal amount of $835 million and $383 million , respectively, with applicable interest rates of 3.213% and 2.537% , respectively, both for an interest period that extends to the final maturity date of february 20, 2044. the proceeds were used to reimburse georgia power for eligible project costs relating to the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4. see note 8 to the financial statements under " long-term debt doe loan guarantee borrowings " for additional information. in june 2019, georgia power entered into two short-term floating rate bank loans in aggregate principal amounts of $125 million each, both of which bear interest based on one-month libor. in september 2019, georgia power issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of series 2019a 2.20% senior notes due september 15, 2024 and $350 million aggregate principal amount of series 2019b 2.65% senior notes due september 15, 2029. subsequent to december 31, 2019, georgia power issued $700 million aggregate principal amount of series 2020a 2.10% senior notes due july 30, 2023, $500 million aggregate principal amount of series 2020b 3.70% senior notes due january 30, 2050, and an additional $300 million aggregate principal amount of series 2019b 2.65% senior notes due september 15, 2029. during 2019, georgia power reoffered to the public the following pollution control revenue bonds that previously had been purchased and were held by georgia power at december 31, 2018: $173 million aggregate principal amount of development authority of bartow county (georgia) pollution control revenue bonds (georgia power company plant bowen project), first series 2009; approximately $105 million aggregate principal amount of development authority of burke county (georgia) pollution control revenue bonds (georgia power company plant vogtle project), first series 2013; $65 million aggregate principal amount of development authority of burke county (georgia) pollution control revenue bonds (georgia power company plant vogtle project), second series 2008; $55 million aggregate principal amount of development authority of burke county (georgia) pollution control revenue bonds (georgia power company plant vogtle project), fifth series 1994; and approximately $72 million aggregate principal amount of development authority of bartow county (georgia) pollution control revenue bonds (georgia power company plant bowen project), first series 2013. during 2019, georgia power purchased, held, and subsequently reoffered to the public an additional $115 million of pollution control revenue bonds. in january 2019, georgia power redeemed approximately $13 million , $20 million , and $75 million aggregate principal amount of development authority of burke county (georgia) pollution control revenue bonds (georgia power company plant vogtle project), first series 1992, eighth series 1994, and second series 1995, respectively. in december 2019, georgia power repaid at maturity $500 million aggregate principal amount of its series 2009b 4.25% senior notes. subsequent to december 31, 2019, georgia power received a capital contribution totaling $500 million from southern company and announced the redemption of all $500 million aggregate principal amount of its series 2017c 2.00% senior notes due september 8, 2020. mississippi power in march 2019, mississippi power reoffered to the public approximately $43 million of mississippi business finance corporation pollution control revenue refunding bonds, series 2002, which previously had been purchased and held by mississippi power. in december 2019, mississippi power redeemed $25 million aggregate principal amount of its series 2018a floating rate senior notes due march 27, 2020. southern power in may 2019, southern power repaid at maturity a $100 million short-term floating rate bank loan. ii-109 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report in december 2019, southern power repaid at maturity $600 million aggregate principal amount of its series 2016d 1.95% senior notes. also in december 2019, southern power entered into a short-term floating rate bank loan in the aggregate principal amount of $100 million, bearing interest based on one-month libor. subsequent to december 31, 2019, southern power repaid the bank loan. southern company gas in july 2019, nicor gas repaid at maturity $50 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.7% first mortgage bonds. in august 2019, southern company gas capital repaid at maturity $300 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.25% senior notes. in august and october 2019, nicor gas issued $200 million and $100 million , respectively, aggregate principal amount of first mortgage bonds in a private placement. credit rating risk at december 31, 2019 , the registrants did not have any credit arrangements that would require material changes in payment schedules or terminations as a result of a credit rating downgrade. there are certain contracts that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a credit rating change of certain registrants to bbb and/or baa2 or below. these contracts are primarily for physical electricity and natural gas purchases and sales, fuel purchases, fuel transportation and storage, energy price risk management, transmission, interest rate management, and, for georgia power, construction of new generation at plant vogtle units 3 and 4. the maximum potential collateral requirements under these contracts at december 31, 2019 were as follows: credit ratings southern company (*) alabama power georgia power mississippi power southern power (*) southern company gas (in millions) at bbb and/or baa2 $ 36 $ 1 $ $ $ 35 $ at bbb- and/or baa3 472 1 86 385 at bb+ and/or ba1 or below 2,040 322 1,020 267 1,174 18 (*) excludes amounts related to plant mankato, which was sold on january 17, 2020. southern power has ppas that could require collateral, but not accelerated payment, in the event of a downgrade of southern power's credit. the ppas require credit assurances without stating a specific credit rating. the amount of collateral required would depend upon actual losses resulting from a credit downgrade. southern power had $104 million of cash collateral posted related to ppa requirements at december 31, 2019 . the potential collateral requirement amounts in the previous table for the traditional electric operating companies and southern power include certain agreements that could require collateral in the event that either alabama power or georgia power has a credit rating change to below investment grade. generally, collateral may be provided by a southern company guaranty, letter of credit, or cash. additionally, a credit rating downgrade could impact the ability of the registrants to access capital markets and would be likely to impact the cost at which they do so. mississippi power and its largest retail customer, chevron, have agreements under which mississippi power continues to provide retail service to the chevron refinery in pascagoula, mississippi through 2038. the agreements grant chevron a security interest in the co-generation assets located at the refinery that is exercisable upon the occurrence of (i) certain bankruptcy events or (ii) other events of default coupled with specific reductions in steam output at the facility and a downgrade of mississippi power's credit rating to below investment grade by two of the three rating agencies. on august 1, 2019, moody's upgraded mississippi power's senior unsecured long-term debt rating to baa2 from baa3 and maintained the positive rating outlook. on september 12, 2019, s&amp;p upgraded the senior unsecured long-term debt rating of alabama power to a from a-, the long-term issuer rating of nicor gas to a from a-, and the senior secured debt rating of nicor gas to a+ from a. the ratings outlooks remained negative. ii-110 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report market price risk the registrants are exposed to market risks, including commodity price risk, interest rate risk, weather risk, and occasionally foreign currency exchange rate risk. to manage the volatility attributable to these exposures, the applicable company nets the exposures, where possible, to take advantage of natural offsets and enters into various derivative transactions for the remaining exposures pursuant to the applicable company's policies in areas such as counterparty exposure and risk management practices. southern company gas' wholesale gas operations uses various contracts in its commercial activities that generally meet the definition of derivatives. for the traditional electric operating companies, southern power, and southern company gas' other businesses, each company's policy is that derivatives are to be used primarily for hedging purposes and mandates strict adherence to all applicable risk management policies. derivative positions are monitored using techniques including, but not limited to, market valuation, value at risk, stress testing, and sensitivity analysis. due to cost-based rate regulation and other various cost recovery mechanisms, the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities that sell natural gas directly to end-use customers continue to have limited exposure to market volatility in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity fuel prices, and prices of electricity. the traditional electric operating companies and certain of the natural gas distribution utilities manage fuel-hedging programs implemented per the guidelines of their respective state pscs or other applicable state regulatory agencies to hedge the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas prices for customers. mississippi power also manages wholesale fuel-hedging programs under agreements with its wholesale customers. because energy from southern power's facilities is primarily sold under long-term ppas with tolling agreements and provisions shifting substantially all of the responsibility for fuel cost to the counterparties, southern power's exposure to market volatility in commodity fuel prices and prices of electricity is generally limited. however, southern power has been and may continue to be exposed to market volatility in energy-related commodity prices as a result of uncontracted generating capacity. to mitigate residual risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the traditional electric operating companies and southern power may enter into physical fixed-price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale electricity market and, to a lesser extent, financial hedge contracts for natural gas purchases; however, a significant portion of contracts are priced at market. certain of southern company gas' non-regulated operations routinely utilize various types of derivative instruments to economically hedge certain commodity price and weather risks inherent in the natural gas industry. these instruments include a variety of exchange-traded and otc energy contracts, such as forward contracts, futures contracts, options contracts, and swap agreements. southern company gas' gas marketing services and wholesale gas services businesses also actively manage storage positions through a variety of hedging transactions for the purpose of managing exposures arising from changing natural gas prices. these hedging instruments are used to substantially protect economic margins (as spreads between wholesale and retail natural gas prices widen between periods) and thereby minimize exposure to declining operating margins. some of these economic hedge activities may not qualify, or may not be designated, for hedge accounting treatment. the registrants had no material change in market risk exposure for the year ended december 31, 2019 when compared to the year ended december 31, 2018 . see note 1 to the financial statements under " financial instruments " and note 14 to the financial statements for additional information. the registrants may enter into interest rate derivatives designated as hedges, which are intended to mitigate interest rate volatility related to forecasted debt financings and existing fixed and floating rate obligations. outstanding interest rate derivatives at december 31, 2019 are as follows: at december 31, 2019 southern company (*) georgia power southern company gas (in millions) hedges of forecasted debt $ 700 $ 500 $ 200 hedges of existing debt 1,800 total $ 2,500 $ 500 $ 200 (*) includes $1.8 billion of hedges of existing debt at the southern company parent. ii-111 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report the following table provides information related to variable interest rate exposure on long-term debt (including amounts due within one year) at december 31, 2019 for the applicable registrants: at december 31, 2019 southern company (*) alabama power georgia power mississippi power southern power (in millions, except percentages) long-term variable interest rate exposure $ 4,063 $ 1,079 $ 550 $ 308 $ 525 weighted average interest rate on long-term variable interest rate exposure 2.38 % 2.35 % 1.74 % 2.51 % 2.46 % impact on annualized interest expense of 100 basis point change in interest rates $ 41 $ 11 $ 6 $ 3 $ 5 (*) includes $1.5 billion of long-term variable interest rate exposure at the southern company parent entity. southern power company had foreign currency denominated debt of 1.1 billion at december 31, 2019 . southern power company has mitigated its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk through the use of foreign currency swaps converting all interest and principal payments to fixed-rate u.s. dollars. the changes in fair value of energy-related derivative contracts for southern company and southern company gas for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 are provided in the table below. the fair value of energy-related derivative contracts was not material for the other registrants. southern company (a) southern company gas (a) (in millions) contracts outstanding at december 31, 2017, assets (liabilities), net $ (163 ) $ (106 ) contracts realized or settled 93 66 current period changes (b) (131 ) (127 ) contracts outstanding at december 31, 2018, assets (liabilities), net $ (201 ) $ (167 ) contracts realized or settled 69 26 current period changes (b) 105 213 disposition 6 contracts outstanding at december 31, 2019, assets (liabilities), net $ (21 ) $ 72 (a) excludes cash collateral held on deposit in broker margin accounts of $99 million , $277 million, and $193 million at december 31, 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively, and premium and intrinsic value associated with weather derivatives of $4 million , $8 million , and $11 million at december 31, 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively. (b) the changes in fair value of energy-related derivative contracts are substantially attributable to both the volume and the price of natural gas. current period changes also include the changes in fair value of new contracts entered into during the period, if any. the net hedge volumes of energy-related derivative contracts for natural gas purchased (sold) at december 31, 2019 and 2018 for southern company and southern company gas were as follows: southern company southern company gas mmbtu volume (in millions) at december 31, 2019: commodity natural gas swaps 327 commodity natural gas options 262 218 total hedge volume 589 218 at december 31, 2018: commodity natural gas swaps 287 commodity natural gas options 144 120 total hedge volume 431 120 ii-112 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report southern company gas' derivative contracts are comprised of both long and short natural gas positions. a long position is a contract to purchase natural gas, and a short position is a contract to sell natural gas. the volumes presented above for southern company gas represent the net of long natural gas positions of 4.10 billion mmbtu and short natural gas positions of 3.88 billion mmbtu at december 31, 2019 and the net of long natural gas positions of 4.16 billion mmbtu and short natural gas positions of 4.04 billion mmbtu at december 31, 2018 . for the southern company system, the weighted average swap contract cost above market prices was approximately $0.28 and $0.12 per mmbtu at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. the change in option fair value is primarily attributable to the volatility of the market and the underlying change in the natural gas price. substantially all of the traditional electric operating companies' natural gas hedge gains and losses are recovered through their respective fuel cost recovery clauses. at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , substantially all of the traditional electric operating companies' and certain of the natural gas distribution utilities' energy-related derivative contracts were designated as regulatory hedges and were related to the applicable company's fuel-hedging program. gains and losses associated with regulatory hedges are initially recorded as regulatory liabilities and assets, respectively, and then are included in fuel expense/cost of natural gas as they are recovered through their respective cost recovery clause. gains and losses on energy-related derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, which are used to hedge anticipated purchases and sales, are initially deferred in aoci before being recognized in income in the same period as the hedged transaction. gains and losses on energy-related derivative contracts that are not designated or fail to qualify as hedges are recognized in the statements of income as incurred. see note 14 to the financial statements for additional information. some energy-related derivative contracts require physical delivery as opposed to financial settlement, and this type of derivative is both common and prevalent within the electric and natural gas industries. when an energy-related derivative contract is settled physically, any cumulative unrealized gain or loss is reversed and the contract price is recognized in the respective line item representing the actual price of the underlying goods being delivered. the registrants use over-the-counter contracts that are not exchange traded but are fair valued using prices which are market observable, and thus fall into level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. in addition, southern company gas uses exchange-traded market-observable contracts, which are categorized as level 1, and contracts that include a combination of observable and unobservable components, which are categorized as level 3. see note 13 to the financial statements for further discussion of fair value measurements. the maturities of the energy-related derivative contracts for southern company and southern company gas at december 31, 2019 were as follows: fair value measurements of contracts at december 31, 2019 total fair value maturity year 1 years 2&amp;3 years 4&amp;5 (in millions) southern company level 1 (a) $ (53 ) $ (19 ) $ (37 ) $ 3 level 2 (b) 18 42 (25 ) 1 level 3 14 10 1 3 southern company total (c) $ (21 ) $ 33 $ (61 ) $ 7 southern company gas level 1 (a) $ (53 ) $ (19 ) $ (37 ) $ 3 level 2 (b) 111 98 11 2 level 3 14 10 1 3 southern company gas total (c) $ 72 $ 89 $ (25 ) $ 8 (a) valued using nymex futures prices. (b) level 2 amounts for southern company gas are valued using basis transactions that represent the cost to transport natural gas from a nymex delivery point to the contract delivery point. these transactions are based on quotes obtained either through electronic trading platforms or directly from brokers. (c) excludes cash collateral of $99 million as well as premium and associated intrinsic value associated with weather derivatives of $4 million at december 31, 2019 . the registrants are exposed to risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to energy-related and interest rate derivative contracts, as applicable. the registrants only enter into agreements and material transactions with counterparties that have ii-113 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report investment grade credit ratings by moody's and s&amp;p, or with counterparties who have posted collateral to cover potential credit exposure. therefore, the registrants do not anticipate market risk exposure from nonperformance by the counterparties. for additional information, see note 1 to the financial statements under " financial instruments " and note 14 to the financial statements. southern company performs periodic reviews of its leveraged lease transactions, both domestic and international, and the creditworthiness of the lessees, including a review of the value of the underlying leased assets and the credit ratings of the lessees. southern company's domestic lease transactions generally do not have any credit enhancement mechanisms; however, the lessees in its international lease transactions have pledged various deposits as additional security to secure the obligations. the lessees in southern company's international lease transactions are also required to provide additional collateral in the event of a credit downgrade below a certain level. see notes 1 and 3 to the financial statements under " leveraged leases " and " other matters southern company ," respectively, for additional information. southern company gas value at risk (var) var is the maximum potential loss in portfolio value over a specified time period that is not expected to be exceeded within a given degree of probability. southern company gas' var may not be comparable to that of other companies due to differences in the factors used to calculate var. southern company gas' var is determined on a 95% confidence interval and a one-day holding period, which means that 95% of the time, the risk of loss in a day from a portfolio of positions is expected to be less than or equal to the amount of var calculated. the open exposure of southern company gas is managed in accordance with established policies that limit market risk and require daily reporting of potential financial exposure to senior management. because southern company gas generally manages physical gas assets and economically protects its positions by hedging in the futures markets, southern company gas' open exposure is generally mitigated. southern company gas employs daily risk testing, using both var and stress testing, to evaluate the risk of its positions. southern company gas actively monitors open commodity positions and the resulting var and maintains a relatively small risk exposure as total buy volume is close to sell volume, with minimal open natural gas price risk. based on a 95% confidence interval and employing a one-day holding period, southstar's portfolio of positions for all periods presented was immaterial. southern company gas' wholesale gas services segment had the following vars at december 31: 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) period end (*) $ 2.6 $ 6.4 $ 4.8 average 3.4 3.7 2.0 high (*) 7.0 11.7 4.8 low 2.1 1.2 1.0 (*) the increase in var at december 31, 2018 reflects significant natural gas price increases in sequent's key markets driven by an industry-wide lower-than-normal natural gas storage inventory position and colder-than-normal weather in the middle of fourth quarter 2018. as weather and natural gas prices moderated subsequent to december 31, 2018, var reduced. credit risk southern company (except as discussed herein), the traditional electric operating companies, and southern power are not exposed to any concentrations of credit risk. southern company gas' exposure to concentrations of credit risk is discussed herein. southern company gas gas distribution operations concentration of credit risk occurs at atlanta gas light for amounts billed for services and other costs to its customers, which consist of 16 marketers in georgia. the credit risk exposure to marketers varies seasonally, with the lowest exposure in the non-peak summer months and the highest exposure in the peak winter months. marketers are responsible for the retail sale of natural gas to end-use customers in georgia. the provisions of atlanta gas light's tariff allow atlanta gas light to obtain credit security support in an amount equal to a minimum of two times a marketer's highest month's estimated bill from atlanta gas light. for 2019 , the four largest marketers based on customer count, which includes southstar, accounted for 21% of southern company gas' adjusted operating margin and 27% of adjusted operating margin for southern company gas' gas distribution operations segment. ii-114 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report several factors are designed to mitigate southern company gas' risks from the increased concentration of credit that has resulted from deregulation. in addition to the security support described above, atlanta gas light bills intrastate delivery service to marketers in advance rather than in arrears. atlanta gas light accepts credit support in the form of cash deposits, letters of credit/surety bonds from acceptable issuers, and corporate guarantees from investment-grade entities. southern company gas reviews the adequacy of credit support coverage, credit rating profiles of credit support providers, and payment status of each marketer. southern company gas believes that adequate policies and procedures are in place to properly quantify, manage, and report on atlanta gas light's credit risk exposure to marketers. atlanta gas light also faces potential credit risk in connection with assignments of interstate pipeline transportation and storage capacity to marketers. although atlanta gas light assigns this capacity to marketers, in the event that a marketer fails to pay the interstate pipelines for the capacity, the interstate pipelines would likely seek repayment from atlanta gas light. wholesale gas services southern company gas has established credit policies to determine and monitor the creditworthiness of counterparties, as well as the quality of pledged collateral. southern company gas also utilizes netting agreements whenever possible to mitigate exposure to counterparty credit risk. when southern company gas is engaged in more than one outstanding derivative transaction with the same counterparty and also has a legally enforceable netting agreement with that counterparty, the "net" mark-to-market exposure represents the netting of the positive and negative exposures with that counterparty and a reasonable measure of southern company gas' credit risk. southern company gas also uses other netting agreements with certain counterparties with whom it conducts significant transactions. netting agreements enable southern company gas to net certain assets and liabilities by counterparty. southern company gas also nets across product lines and against cash collateral, provided the netting and cash collateral agreements include such provisions. southern company gas may require counterparties to pledge additional collateral when deemed necessary. southern company gas conducts credit evaluations and obtains appropriate internal approvals for a counterparty's line of credit before any transaction with the counterparty is executed. in most cases, the counterparty must have an investment grade rating, which includes a minimum long-term debt rating of baa3 from moody's and bbb- from s&amp;p. generally, southern company gas requires credit enhancements by way of a guaranty, cash deposit, or letter of credit for transaction counterparties that do not have investment grade ratings. certain of southern company gas' derivative instruments contain credit-risk-related or other contingent features that could increase the payments for collateral it posts in the normal course of business when its financial instruments are in net liability positions. at december 31, 2019 , for agreements with such features, southern company gas' derivative instruments with liability fair values were immaterial and southern company gas had no collateral posted with derivatives counterparties to satisfy these arrangements. southern company gas has a concentration of credit risk as measured by its 30-day receivable exposure plus forward exposure. at december 31, 2019 , the top 20 counterparties of southern company gas' wholesale gas services segment represented approximately 59% , or $218 million , of its total counterparty exposure and had a weighted average s&amp;p equivalent credit rating of a-, all of which is consistent with the prior year. the s&amp;p equivalent credit rating is determined by a process of converting the lower of the s&amp;p or moody's ratings to an internal rating ranging from 9 to 1, with 9 being equivalent to aaa/aaa by s&amp;p and moody's, respectively, and 1 being d / default by s&amp;p and moody's, respectively. a counterparty that does not have an external rating is assigned an internal rating based on the strength of the financial ratios of that counterparty. to arrive at the weighted average credit rating, each counterparty is assigned an internal ratio, which is multiplied by their credit exposure and summed for all counterparties. the sum is divided by the aggregate total counterparties' exposures, and this numeric value is then converted to a s&amp;p equivalent. ii-115 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report the following table provides credit risk information related to southern company gas' third-party natural gas contracts receivable and payable positions at december 31: gross receivables gross payables 2019 2018 2019 2018 (in millions) (in millions) netting agreements in place: counterparty is investment grade $ 238 $ 461 $ 127 $ 255 counterparty is non-investment grade 1 5 43 95 counterparty has no external rating 175 314 272 505 no netting agreements in place: counterparty is investment grade 14 19 1 counterparty has no external rating 2 amount recorded in balance sheets $ 428 $ 801 $ 442 $ 856 gas marketing services southern company gas obtains credit scores for its firm residential and small commercial customers using a national credit reporting agency, enrolling only those customers that meet or exceed southern company gas' credit threshold. southern company gas considers potential interruptible and large commercial customers based on reviews of publicly available financial statements and commercially available credit reports. prior to entering into a physical transaction, southern company gas also assigns physical wholesale counterparties an internal credit rating and credit limit based on the counterparties' moody's, s&amp;p, and fitch ratings, commercially available credit reports, and audited financial statements. capital requirements total estimated capital expenditures for the registrants through 2024 based on their current construction programs are as follows: 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 (in billions) southern company (a)(b)(c)(d) $ 8.7 $ 7.3 $ 6.8 $ 6.8 $ 6.2 alabama power (b) 2.1 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.6 georgia power (c) 4.1 3.4 3.0 2.8 2.7 mississippi power 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.2 southern power (d) 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 southern company gas 1.8 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.6 (a) includes the subsidiary registrants, as well the other subsidiaries. (b) includes amounts contingent upon approval by the alabama psc related to alabama power's september 6, 2019 ccn filing totaling $0.5 billion for 2020, $0.2 billion for 2021, $0.3 billion for 2022, and $0.1 billion for 2023. see future earnings potential " regulatory matters alabama power petition for certificate of convenience and necessity " herein for additional information. (c) these amounts include expenditures of approximately $1.6 billion , $0.9 billion , and $0.3 billion for the construction of plant vogtle units 3 and 4 in 2020 , 2021 , and 2022 , respectively. (d) these amounts do not include approximately $0.5 billion per year for 2020 through 2024 for southern power's planned expenditures for plant acquisitions and placeholder growth, which may vary materially due to market opportunities and southern power's ability to execute its growth strategy. these amounts include estimated capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, but do not include any potential compliance costs associated with pending regulation of co 2 emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. see future earnings potential " environmental matters " herein for additional information. these amounts also include capital expenditures related to contractual purchase commitments for nuclear fuel (for southern company, alabama power, and georgia power) and capital expenditures covered under ltsas. the traditional electric operating companies also anticipate costs associated with closure and monitoring of ash ponds and landfills in accordance with the ccr rule and the related state rules, which are reflected in the applicable registrants' aro liabilities. alabama power's cost estimates are based on closure-in-place for all of its ash ponds. the cost estimates for georgia ii-116 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report power and mississippi power are based on a combination of closure-in-place for some ash ponds and closure by removal for others. these anticipated costs are likely to change, and could change materially, as assumptions and details pertaining to closure are refined and compliance activities continue. see future earnings potential " environmental matters environmental laws and regulations coal combustion residuals " herein and note 6 to the financial statements for additional information. the current estimates of these costs through 2024 are as follows: 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 (in millions) southern company $ 498 $ 551 $ 742 $ 916 $ 967 alabama power 200 217 284 363 386 georgia power 265 289 391 475 530 mississippi power 23 29 24 23 20 the construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from these estimates because of numerous factors. these factors include: changes in business conditions; changes in load projections; changes in environmental laws and regulations; the outcome of any legal challenges to environmental rules; changes in electric generating plants, including unit retirements and replacements and adding or changing fuel sources at existing electric generating units, to meet regulatory requirements; changes in ferc rules and regulations; state regulatory agency approvals; changes in the expected environmental compliance program; changes in legislation; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; project scope and design changes; abnormal weather; delays in construction due to judicial or regulatory action; storm impacts; and the cost of capital. in addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered. additionally, southern power's planned expenditures for plant acquisitions may vary due to market opportunities and southern power's ability to execute its growth strategy. see note 15 to the financial statements under " southern power " for additional information regarding southern power's plant acquisitions and construction projects. the construction program of georgia power also includes plant vogtle units 3 and 4, which includes components based on new technology that only within the last few years began initial operation in the global nuclear industry at this scale and which may be subject to additional revised cost estimates during construction. see note 2 to the financial statements under " georgia power nuclear construction " for information regarding plant vogtle units 3 and 4 and additional factors that may impact construction expenditures. see future earnings potential " construction programs " herein for additional information. also see " contractual obligations " herein for information regarding other future funding requirements of the registrants. ii-117 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report contractual obligations the following tables present the registrants' contractual obligations at december 31, 2019 . additional information about these funding requirements is provided herein. southern company 2020 2021-2022 2023-2024 after 2024 total (in millions) long-term debt principal $ 2,971 $ 5,189 $ 2,890 $ 33,489 $ 44,539 interest 1,677 3,109 2,809 25,986 33,581 financial derivative obligations 450 204 65 719 operating leases 294 543 386 1,609 2,832 finance leases 31 47 33 246 357 pipeline charges, storage capacity, and gas supply 725 1,085 784 1,677 4,271 purchase commitments capital 7,758 12,981 11,989 32,728 fuel 2,787 3,491 1,527 4,546 12,351 purchased power 150 270 237 1,725 2,382 other 406 618 530 2,174 3,728 aro settlements 498 1,293 1,883 3,674 other (*) 163 310 38 65 576 southern company system total $ 17,910 $ 29,140 $ 23,171 $ 71,517 $ 141,738 (*) includes funding requirements related to pension and other postretirement benefit plans, nuclear decommissioning trusts of georgia power, and preferred stock dividends of alabama power. alabama power 2020 2021-2022 2023-2024 after 2024 total (in millions) long-term debt principal $ 250 $ 1,060 $ 321 $ 6,956 $ 8,587 interest 338 649 578 4,985 6,550 preferred stock dividends 15 29 29 73 financial derivative obligations 14 10 24 operating leases 54 105 5 1 165 finance leases 1 2 1 4 purchase commitments capital 1,502 2,891 2,927 7,320 fuel 959 1,226 465 808 3,458 purchased power 35 75 77 446 633 other 39 81 62 243 425 aro settlements 200 501 749 1,450 pension and other postretirement benefit plans 14 28 42 alabama power total $ 3,421 $ 6,657 $ 5,214 $ 13,439 $ 28,731 ii-118 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report georgia power 2020 2021-2022 2023-2024 after 2024 total (in millions) long-term debt principal $ 1,014 $ 906 $ 628 $ 9,236 $ 11,784 interest 384 715 668 5,070 6,837 financial derivative obligations 49 21 70 operating leases 205 395 359 831 1,790 finance leases 28 49 50 134 261 purchase commitments capital 3,805 6,080 4,966 14,851 fuel 1,091 1,401 629 3,610 6,731 purchased power 56 117 123 862 1,158 other 117 121 133 205 576 aro settlements 265 680 1,006 1,951 nuclear decommissioning trust 5 9 9 65 88 pension and other postretirement benefit plans 50 93 143 georgia power total $ 7,069 $ 10,587 $ 8,571 $ 20,013 $ 46,240 mississippi power 2020 2021-2022 2023-2024 after 2024 total (in millions) long-term debt principal $ 282 $ 270 $ $ 1,026 $ 1,578 interest 68 102 83 542 795 financial derivative obligations 15 11 1 27 operating leases 2 2 1 2 7 purchase commitments capital 255 397 402 1,054 fuel 313 312 169 108 902 purchased power 17 36 37 417 507 other 28 58 69 230 385 aro settlements 23 53 44 120 pension and other postretirement benefits plans 7 14 21 mississippi power total $ 1,010 $ 1,255 $ 806 $ 2,325 $ 5,396 southern power 2020 2021-2022 2023-2024 after 2024 total (in millions) long-term debt principal $ 825 $ 977 $ 290 $ 2,339 $ 4,431 interest 163 278 222 1,302 1,965 financial derivative obligations 3 3 operating leases 29 50 52 888 1,019 purchase commitments capital 251 306 294 851 fuel 424 552 265 20 1,261 purchased power 42 42 84 other 159 296 239 1,481 2,175 southern power total $ 1,896 $ 2,501 $ 1,362 $ 6,030 $ 11,789 ii-119 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report southern company gas 2020 2021-2022 2023-2024 after 2024 total (in millions) long-term debt principal $ $ 376 $ 400 $ 4,659 $ 5,435 interest 235 458 425 3,213 4,331 financial derivative obligations 369 161 66 596 operating leases 18 31 21 44 114 pipeline charges, storage capacity, and gas supply 725 1,085 784 1,677 4,271 purchase commitments capital 1,775 3,191 3,335 8,301 other 31 14 1 46 pension and other postretirement benefit plans 16 29 45 southern company gas total $ 3,169 $ 5,345 $ 5,032 $ 9,593 $ 23,139 additional information about these funding requirements is provided below: long-term debt represents scheduled maturities of long-term debt, as well as the related interest. all amounts are reflected based on final maturity dates except for amounts related to georgia power's ffb borrowings. the final maturity date for georgia power's ffb borrowings is february 20, 2044; however, principal amortization is reflected beginning in february 2020. the interest amounts also include the effects of interest rate derivatives employed to manage interest rate risk and effects of foreign currency swaps employed to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, as applicable. for southern company and southern power, debt principal includes a $5 million loss related to southern power's foreign currency hedge of 1.1 billion. the registrants plan to continue, when economically feasible, to retire higher-cost securities and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit. variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates at december 31, 2019 , as reflected in the statements of capitalization for each registrant. long-term debt excludes finance lease amounts, which are shown separately. see note 8 to the financial statements for additional information. financial derivative obligations see note 14 to the financial statements for additional information. operating and finance leases see note 9 to the financial statements for additional information. operating lease commitments may include certain land leases for facilities that may be subject to annual price escalation based on indices. estimated lease payments for southern company and alabama power exclude amounts contingent upon approval by the alabama psc related to alabama power's september 6, 2019 ccn filing totaling $1 million for 2021, $2 million for 2022, $3 million for 2023, $4 million for 2024, and $85 million for after 2024. see note 2 to the financial statements under " alabama power petition for certificate of convenience and necessity " for additional information. purchase commitments capital estimated capital expenditures are provided for a five-year period, including capital expenditures associated with environmental regulations. these amounts exclude contractual purchase commitments for nuclear fuel, capital expenditures covered under ltsas, and estimated capital expenditures for aros, which are reflected in the "fuel," "other," and "aro settlements" categories, respectively, where applicable. estimated capital expenditures for southern company and alabama power exclude amounts contingent upon approval by the alabama psc related to alabama power's september 6, 2019 ccn filing totaling $0.5 billion for 2020, $0.2 billion for 2021, $0.3 billion for 2022, and $0.1 billion for 2023. see note 2 to the financial statements under " alabama power petition for certificate of convenience and necessity " for additional information. estimated capital expenditures for southern company and southern power exclude approximately $0.5 billion per year for 2020 through 2024 for southern power's planned expenditures for plant acquisitions and placeholder growth. at december 31, 2019 , significant purchase commitments were outstanding in connection with the registrants' construction programs. see future earnings potential " environmental matters " and " construction programs " herein and " capital requirements " herein for additional information. purchase commitments fuel primarily includes commitments to purchase coal (for the traditional electric operating companies), natural gas (for the traditional electric operating companies and southern power), and nuclear fuel (for alabama power and georgia power), as well as the related transportation and storage. in most cases, these contracts contain provisions for price escalation, minimum purchase levels, and other financial commitments. natural gas purchase commitments are based on various indices at the time of delivery. amounts reflected for natural gas purchase commitments have been estimated based on the nymex future prices at december 31, 2019 . purchase commitments purchased power represents estimated minimum obligations for various ppas for the purchase of capacity and energy, as well as, for georgia power, capacity payments related to plant vogtle units 1 and 2. amounts exclude ppas accounted for as leases, which are reflected in the "operating leases" and "finance leases" categories, where applicable. ii-120 table of contents index to financial statements combined management's discussion and analysis (continued) southern company and subsidiary companies 2019 annual report estimated capacity payments for southern company and alabama power exclude amounts contingent upon approval by the alabama psc related to alabama power's september 6, 2019 ccn filing totaling $4 million for 2020, $7 million for 2021, $7 million for 2022, $8 million for 2023, $8 million for 2024, and $107 million for after 2024. see note 2 to the financial statements under "alabama power petition for certificate of convenience and necessity" for additional information. mississippi power's long-term ppas are associated with solar facilities and only include an energy component. southern power's purchased power commitments will be resold under a third-party agreement at cost. see note 3 to the financial statements under " guarantees " for additional information. purchase commitments other includes ltsas (for all registrants), contracts for the procurement of limestone (for alabama power and georgia power), contractual environmental remediation liabilities (for southern company gas), operation and maintenance agreements (for southern power), and transmission agreements (for southern power). ltsas include price escalation based on inflation indices. southern power's transmission commitments are based on the southern company system's current tariff rate for point-to-point transmission. pension and other postretirement benefit plans the southern company system provides postretirement benefits to the majority of its employees and funds trusts to the extent required by pscs, other applicable state regulatory agencies, or the ferc. the registrants forecast contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans over a three-year period. the registrants anticipate no mandatory contributions to the qualified pension plan during the next three years. amounts presented represent estimated benefit payments for the nonqualified pension plans, estimated non-trust benefit payments for the other postretirement benefit plans, and estimated contributions to the other postretirement benefit plan trusts, all of which will be made from corporate assets of the applicable subsidiaries. see note 11 to the financial statements for additional information related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans, including estimated benefit payments. certain benefit payments will be made through the related benefit plans. other benefit payments will be made from corporate assets of the applicable subsidiaries. aro settlements represents estimated costs for a five-year period associated with closing and monitoring ash ponds at the traditional electric operating companies in accordance with the ccr rule and the related state rules, which are reflected in the applicable registrants' aro liabilities. material expenditures in future years for aro settlements also will be required for ash ponds, nuclear decommissioning (for alabama power and georgia power), and other liabilities reflected in the applicable registrants' aros. see note 6 to the financial statements for additional information. preferred stock dividends represents preferred stock of alabama power. preferred stock does not mature; therefore, amounts are provided for the next five years only. nuclear decommissioning trusts as a result of nrc requirements, alabama power and georgia power have external trust funds for nuclear decommissioning costs. based on its most recent site study completed in 2018, alabama power currently has no additional funding requirements. alabama power's next site study is expected to be conducted by 2023. georgia power's projections of nuclear decommissioning trust fund contributions for plant hatch and plant vogtle units 1 and 2 are based on the 2019 arp. see note 6 to the financial statements under " nuclear decommissioning " for additional information. pipeline charges, storage capacity, and gas supply includes charges at southern company gas recoverable through a natural gas cost recovery mechanism, or alternatively billed to marketers selling retail natural gas, and demand charges associated with sequent. the gas supply balance includes amounts for nicor gas and southstar gas commodity purchase commitments of 45 million mmbtu at floating gas prices calculated using forward natural gas prices at december 31, 2019 and valued at $84 million . southern company gas provides guarantees to certain gas suppliers for certain of its subsidiaries, including southstar, in support of payment obligations. ii-121 table of contents index to financial statementsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis financial condition and liquidity market price risk of each of the registrants in item 7 herein and note 1 of each of the registrant financial statements in item 8 herein under financial instruments. see also note 6 to the financial statements of southern company and each retail operating company and note 5 to the financial statements of southern power in item 8 herein under financial instruments. ii-2 table of contents