quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the primary objective of red hat investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, the company maintains its portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments in a variety of fixed-income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. the following table presents the fair value balances of the company cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments that are subject to interest rate risk by year of expected maturity and average interest rates as of february 28, 2002 (in thousands): year ending february 28, 2003 february 29, 2004 february 28, 2005 february 29, 2006 february 28, 2007 total cash equivalents 55,468 55,468 average interest rate 1.93 % investments 40,928 49,213 74,232 23,495 43,641 231,509 average interest rates 5.56 % 3.47 % 4.06 % 5.03 % 5.40 % red hat did not hold derivative financial instruments as of february 28, 2002, and has never held such investments in the past. foreign currency risk approximately 29.6% of the company fiscal 2002 revenues were generated by sales outside the united states. the company is exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. additionally, the assets and liabilities of the company non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect as of the applicable balance sheet dates, and revenue and expense accounts of these operations are translated at average exchange rates during the month the transactions occur. unrealized translation gains and losses will be included as an adjustment to stockholders equity. 35risk factors 17 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. please carefully consider the following risks and cautionary statements. if any event related to the following risk factors occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. risks related to business uncertainty we face intense competition. the enterprise software industry is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and is subject to changing technologies, shifting customer needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services by both new and established information technology ( it ) companies. we compete based on our ability to provide our customers with enterprise software and related service offerings that best meet their needs at a compelling price. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors' products may provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our offerings. competitive pressures could also affect the prices we may charge or the demand for our offerings, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market share. our current and potential competitors range from large and well-established companies to emerging start-ups. some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and name recognition, larger development and sales staffs and more extensive marketing and distribution capabilities. certain competitors also bundle hardware and software offerings, making it more difficult for us to penetrate their customer bases, while other competitors may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can. as the enterprise software industry evolves, the competitive pressure for us to innovate encompasses a wider range of products and services, including new offerings that require different expertise than our current offerings. moreover, if we are unable to effectively communicate the value of our subscription model, we may not compete effectively in attracting new, and maintaining existing, customers. given the rapid evolving nature of the enterprise software industry, the competitive landscape and the nature of the competition is constantly changing. consolidation and divestitures in the technology industry are trends that we expect to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain market positions as the technology industry evolves. industry consolidation may affect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete or competitors that position themselves as key or single-source vendors providing end-to-end technology solutions for the data center. moreover, other companies may currently be planning to, or are under pressure by stockholders to, divest businesses. these divestitures may result in additional competitors that may have an advantage by focusing on a single product or service. we also compete in certain areas with our partners and potential partners, some of which may from time to time form new strategic alliances designed to position one or more of them as a key or single-source vendor, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. our efforts to compete effectively may not be sufficient, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry. investment in new offerings, business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, such as the transition of many of our enterprise customers to cloud computing environments and frequent new product and service announcements. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies and user preferences, to adapt our offerings to evolving industry standards, to predict user preferences and industry changes in order to continue to provide value to our customers and to improve the performance and reliability of our offerings. our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business, and our efforts to adapt to such changes could require substantial expenditures on our part to modify our offerings or infrastructure. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings and technologies could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings and technologies. the success of new and enhanced offering introductions depends on several factors, including our ability to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings in a timely manner, successfully promote the offerings, manage the risks associated with the offerings, make sufficient resources available to support the offerings and address any quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. even if we are able to enhance our existing offerings or introduce new offerings that are well perceived by the market, if our marketing or sales efforts do not generate interest in or sales for these offerings, they may be unsuccessful. 17 table of contents moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and technology road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management's attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading cloud service providers, hardware original equipment manufacturers ( oems ), independent software vendors ( isvs ) and system integrators ( sis ) to help us attract and retain a larger customer base. many of these strategic partners have engineered and certified that their technologies run on or with our offerings and, in some cases, have built their products and solutions using our offerings. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms in the future. some of our strategic partners offer competing products and services. as a result of these factors, many of the companies with which we have strategic alliances may choose to pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our offerings, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our offerings effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. as our agreements with strategic partners terminate or expire, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. we rely, to a significant degree, on indirect sales channels for the distribution of our offerings, and disruption within these channels could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we use a variety of different indirect distribution methods for our offerings, including channel partners, such as certified cloud and service providers, distributors, embedded technology partners, oems, isvs, sis and value added resellers. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of channel partners with whom we have no direct relationship. these relationships allow us to offer our technologies to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we rely, to a significant degree, on each of our channel partners to select, screen and maintain relationships with its distribution network and to distribute our offerings in a manner that is consistent with applicable law and regulatory requirements and our quality standards. if our channel partners or a partner in its distribution network violate applicable law or regulatory requirements or misrepresent the functionality of our offerings, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to potential liability. furthermore, our channel partners may offer their own products and services or the products and services of other companies that compete with our offerings or may not distribute and market our offerings effectively. moreover, our existing channel partner relationships do not, and any future channel partner relationships may not, provide for any exclusivity regarding marketing or distribution. in addition, if a channel partner is acquired by a competitor, its business units are reorganized or divested or its financial condition were to weaken, our revenue derived from that partner may be adversely impacted. recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our enterprise technologies requires significant time and resources. if we fail to devote sufficient resources to support and expand our network of channel partners, our business may be adversely affected. in addition, because we rely on channel partners for the indirect distribution of our enterprise technologies, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate end-users of our technologies, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our software, support ongoing customer requirements, estimate end-user demand, respond to evolving customer needs and obtain subscription renewals from end-users. a portion of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through our channel partners. government entities may have statutory, contractual, or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our channel partners for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future operating results. government entities routinely investigate and audit government contractors' administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in a government entity refusing to continue buying our offerings, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. if our indirect distribution channel is disrupted, we may be required to devote more resources to distribute our offerings directly and support our customers, which may not be as effective and could lead to higher costs, reduced revenue and growth that is slower than expected. 18 table of contents if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations significantly in recent years. for example, our total revenue increased from $2.41 billion for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2017 to $2.92 billion for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2018 ( fiscal 2018 ). moreover, the total number of our employees increased from approximately 10,500 as of february 28, 2017 to approximately 11,870 as of february 28, 2018 . in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully provide our offerings and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources, internal controls and oversight from our senior management. as we expand in international markets, these challenges increase as a result of the need to support a growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, dispute resolution systems, regulatory systems and commercial practices. as we grow, (i) we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise, manage or develop sufficient personnel, and (ii) we may not be able to develop or effectively manage our controls, oversight functions or information systems. if we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, divert management's attention, adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows or dilute stockholder value. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions, and we may continue to do so in the future. these types of transactions can increase the expense of running our business and present significant challenges and risks, including: integrating the acquired business' accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and reporting, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; incorporating and further developing acquired products or technology into our offerings and maintaining quality standards consistent with our brands; effectively evaluating talent at an acquired business or identifying cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired business into our organization; losing key employees of the acquired business; achieving the expected benefits of the transaction, which may include generating greater market acceptance of our offerings and technologies, increasing our revenue or integrating the assets acquired into one or more of our current offerings; increasing or adding operating expenses related to the acquired business or technology; identifying acquisition targets that complement our strategic direction and technology road map; gathering full information regarding a business or technology prior to a transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected tax implications and other adverse effects on our business; maintaining or establishing acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; disrupting our ongoing business and distracting management; impairing relationships with our employees, partners or customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel, products or technology or as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape affected by the transaction; maintaining good relationships with customers or business partners of the acquired business; incurring expenses related to the transaction; assuming claims and liabilities from the acquired business or technology, or that are otherwise related to the transaction; entering into new markets in which we have little or no experience or in which competitors may have stronger market positions; 19 table of contents impairing of intangible assets and goodwill acquired in transactions; and for foreign transactions, managing additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing transactions that we have pursued or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing and completing such transactions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, or we may incur substantial debt. we could also issue additional securities as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. any transaction may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, or may take longer to do so than expected, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our offerings and third-party products upon which our offerings depend may contain errors or defects that may be costly to correct or work around, delay market acceptance of our enterprise technologies and expose us to claims and litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and may continue to be found in our offerings after deployment. this risk is increased by the fact that much of the code in our offerings is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them, and we may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. in addition, errors or defects (including deviations from published specifications) in our technologies or the design architecture or implementation of third-party products upon which our offerings depend could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. for example, in january 2018, computer security researchers publicly disclosed the discovery of hardware-based security vulnerabilities known as meltdown and spectre. the meltdown and spectre vulnerabilities affect many modern microprocessors and could allow an unauthorized individual to gain access to privileged memory that would otherwise be inaccessible. while we have issued updates for our offerings designed to address the meltdown and spectre vulnerabilities, such updates could slow the performance of affected machines. meltdown and spectre and similar vulnerabilities, errors or defects in our technologies or the third party products on which our offerings depend could cause system failures, security breaches, loss of data, performance issues or other adverse effects for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our agreements with our customers often contain provisions that seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. while we seek to insure against these types of claims, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to such claims. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. any errors or defects in our offerings or third-party products upon which our offerings depend could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our offerings, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue, damage to our reputation, declining market acceptance of emerging technologies, such as cloud computing, negatively affect demand for our technologies or delay their release, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 20 table of contents security breaches and data loss may expose us to liability, harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. our business involves the production and distribution of enterprise software technologies, as well as hosting applications. as part of our business, we receive, store and process our data, as well as our employees', customers' and partners' data. we also work with third-party service providers and vendors that offer technologies, systems and services that we use in our business operations and in connection with the receipt, storage and processing of such data. while we take security measures relating to our offerings and business operations seriously and devote significant resources to implement and maintain security measures, those measures (or those of our third-party service providers and vendors) may not prevent security breaches or data loss or unauthorized disclosure that could harm our business, our employees or the businesses of our customers and partners. inadequate technology or security measures, the failure to follow proper security protocols or other factors may result in data loss or unauthorized disclosure or a compromise or breach of our systems and the data we receive, store and process (or systems and the data received, stored and processed by our third-party service providers and vendors). security measures may be breached or data may be lost or disclosed by third parties (such as through social engineering techniques to induce disclosure of passwords or other sensitive information, other actions to gain access to our data or our customers' or partners' data, or the use of ineffective security measures or failure to follow proper security protocols), human error (such as the use of weak passwords or unencrypted devices), malfeasance or vulnerabilities (including vulnerabilities of our third-party service providers and vendors) or bugs found in software code. a party who is able to circumvent security measures or exploit inadequacies in security measures, could, among other things, misappropriate proprietary information (including information about our employees, customers and partners, our customers' information, financial data and data that others could use to compete against us), cause the loss, misuse or disclosure of some or all of this information, cause interruptions or denial of service in our or our customers' operations, cause delays in development efforts or expose customers (and their customers) to computer viruses or other disruptions or vulnerabilities. a compromise to these systems could remain undetected for an extended period of time, exacerbating the impact of that compromise. while we have not yet experienced a cyber security incident that has had a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results or cash flows, we have experienced the unauthorized exposure of limited data by a third-party service provider. risks arising from or related to security breaches or data loss are likely to increase as we continue to grow our cloud, mobile and services offerings and as we receive, store and process more data. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to regulatory investigations and sanctions, claims against us by current or former employees, customers, partners or other third parties, or costs, such as those related to providing breach notifications and fraud monitoring. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of remediating any incidents, implementing further data protection measures or upgrading our cybersecurity systems could be significant. moreover, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, often grow more complex over time and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures, which could exacerbate the effects of a breach. we can make no assurance that we will be able to detect, prevent, timely and adequately address, or mitigate the negative effects of cyberattacks or other security breaches. any loss of data or compromise of our systems or the data we receive, store or process (or systems and the data received, stored and processed by our third-party service providers and vendors) could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings, damage our reputation, cause the loss of current or potential customers or partners, lead to legal liability and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. the duration and extent of economic downturns, regional financial instability, and economic and market conditions in general could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. economic weakness and uncertainty, tightened credit markets and constrained it spending from time to time contribute to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the industries of our customers and the geographic regions in which we operate, which may result in reduced demand and increased price competition for our offerings. our operating results in one or more geographic regions or customer industries may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region or industry. uncertainty about future economic conditions may, among other things, negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases or lengthen our sales cycle. adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, such conditions may impact our investment portfolio, and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. also, such conditions may make it more difficult to forecast operating results. if global economic conditions, or economic conditions in the u.s., europe, asia or in other key geographic regions or customer industries, were to deteriorate, current and prospective customers may delay or reduce their it spending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 21 table of contents we depend on our key employees, and our inability to attract and retain such employees could adversely affect our business or diminish our brands. competition in our industry for qualified employees, especially technical employees, is intense and our competitors may directly target our employees. our inability to attract and retain key employees could hinder our influence in open source projects and seriously impede our success. we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we may experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. potential changes to u.s. immigration policies may inhibit our ability to hire and retain qualified employees to the extent these policies restrain the mobility of technical and professional talent. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited, that they have divulged proprietary or other confidential information, or that their former employers own their inventions or other work product. moreover, the loss of these key employees, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish our brands. a number of our key employees have become, or will become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly appreciated in value. additionally, as we grow, there may be less equity compensation to award per employee. if we do not succeed in attracting and retaining key personnel, our business, financial performance, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain capable management. our future success depends on the continued services and effectiveness of a number of key management personnel. the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, could adversely affect our business or stock price. our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent that other companies are able to offer more attractive opportunities to the individuals we seek to hire or retain. in addition, historically we have used share-based compensation as a key component of our compensation packages. if the price of our common stock falls, the value of our share-based awards to recipients is reduced. such events, or if we are unable to secure stockholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for share-based compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key management personnel could hinder our strategic planning and execution. because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry into the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone may modify and redistribute the existing open source software and use it to compete with us. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions or acquire a smaller business that has developed open source offerings that compete with our offerings, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our offerings. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. additionally, any failure by us to provide high-quality technical support, or the perception that we do not provide high-quality technical support, could harm our reputation and negatively impact our ability to sell subscriptions for our open source offerings to existing and prospective customers. if we are unable to differentiate our open source offerings from those of our competitors or compete effectively with other open source offerings, our business, financial condition, operation results and cash flows could be adversely affected. 22 table of contents our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and collaboration fostered by our culture, and our business may be adversely affected. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and collaboration. as our organization grows, our employees (including remote workers) and our resources become more globally dispersed and our organizational management structures become more complex, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain these beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees, continue to perform at current levels or execute on our business strategy. as a result, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. our emerging technology offerings are based on developing technologies and business models, and the potential market for these offerings remains uncertain. our emerging technology offerings, which include our cloud, mobile and storage offerings, are based on developing technologies and business models, the success of which will depend on the technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the adoption of these technologies. these technologies are rapidly evolving, and their development is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment as well as the accurate anticipation of technology trends, market demand and customer needs. we expect competition to remain intense and, as with many emerging it sectors, these technologies may be subject to a first mover effect pursuant to which certain product offerings rapidly capture a significant portion of market share and developer attention. moreover, we may make errors in reacting to relevant business trends and predicting which technologies will be successful or otherwise develop into industry standards. adoption of emerging technologies may occur more slowly or less pervasively than we expect and the revenue growth associated with these offerings may be slower than currently expected. moreover, even if emerging technologies are adopted widely by enterprises, our offerings in these areas may not attract a sufficient number of users or generate attractive financial results. we incur expenses associated with these offerings in advance of our ability to generate associated revenue. demand for our emerging technology offerings may unfavorably impact demand for our other offerings, including software subscriptions and related professional services. if the market for our emerging technologies offerings fails to develop adequately, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may experience a decline in the demand for our offerings. demand for our offerings depends substantially on the general demand for enterprise software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. in addition, our customers generally undertake a significant evaluation process that may result in a lengthy sales cycle. we spend substantial time, effort, and money on our sales efforts, including developing and implementing appropriate go-to-market strategies and training our sales force and channel partners in order to effectively market new offerings, without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. the purchase of our offerings may be discretionary and can involve significant expenditures. if our current and prospective customers cut costs, then they may significantly reduce their enterprise software expenditures. an increased focus on developing and providing emerging technology offerings may place a greater emphasis on marketing more holistic solutions, rather than individual offerings. consequently, we may need to adapt our marketing and pricing strategies for our offerings, our customers' purchasing decisions may become more complex and require a more significant evaluation process and additional levels of approval and the duration of sales cycles for our offerings may increase. if demand for our offerings declines, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. if our customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, or if they renew on less favorable terms, our business, financial results, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. our customers may not renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower-priced edition of our offerings or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our offerings and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower-priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. 23 table of contents our business model may encounter customer resistance. we provide red hat enterprise technologies primarily under annual or multi-year subscriptions. a subscription generally entitles a customer to, among other things, a specified level of support, as well as security updates, fixes, functionality enhancements, upgrades to the technologies, each, if and when available, and compatibility with an ecosystem of certified hardware and software. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, customers may fail to honor the terms of our subscription agreements. as technologies and the markets for our enterprise offerings change, our annual or multi-year subscription-based business model may no longer meet the needs of our customers. for example, a business model based on annual or multi-year subscriptions may no longer be competitive in an environment where disruptive technologies (such as cloud computing) enable customers to consume competitive offerings available from companies such as amazon web services, inc., google inc. and microsoft corporation on an hourly basis or for free. we also develop and offer these disruptive technologies with consumption-based pricing, which may have an effect on the demand for our subscription-based offerings. if we are unable to adapt our business model to changes in the marketplace, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make their products and services compatible with our offerings, our software may cease to be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. the competitive position of our offerings is dependent on their compatibility with products and services of third-party enterprise hardware and software companies. to the extent that a hardware or software vendor might have or develop products and services that compete with ours, the vendor may have an incentive to seek to limit the performance, functionality or compatibility of our offerings when used with one or more of the vendor's offerings. in addition, these vendors may fail to support or issue statements of compatibility or certification of our offerings when used with their offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to our offerings, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various third-party hardware and software offerings by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware and software vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our offerings may not be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new technologies, adequately enhance our existing technologies or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our enterprise technologies. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our offerings or we would need to develop and enhance our offerings with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our technology release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our offerings could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. our continued success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance strong brands. we believe that the brand identities that we have developed have contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to expanding our customer and partner base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brands, we may be required to make further investments that may not be successful. maintaining our brands will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high-quality offerings. if we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. 24 table of contents we are vulnerable to technology infrastructure failures, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, and the technology infrastructure of third parties, for many functions, including selling our offerings, supporting our partners, fulfilling orders and billing, and collecting and making payments. this technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer intrusions, vulnerabilities and viruses, software errors, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of the systems making up this infrastructure are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for every eventuality. this technology infrastructure may fail or be vulnerable to damage or interruption because of actions by third parties or employee error or malfeasance. we may not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of technology infrastructure failures or to cover all contingencies. any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers or partners may cause a reduction in customer or partner satisfaction levels, which in turn could cause additional claims, reduced revenue or loss of customers or partners. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, a loss of data, loss of confidence in the stability and reliability of our offerings, damage to our reputation, and legal liability, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. a decline in or reprioritization of funding in the u.s. or foreign government budgets or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we derive, and expect to continue to derive, a portion of our revenue from u.s. and foreign governments. government deficit reduction and austerity measures can place pressure on u.s. and foreign government spending. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. the termination of, or delayed or reduced funding for, government-sponsored programs and contracts from which we derive revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our offerings, damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. as a result, a new technology we acquire or adopt and incorporate into our offerings could become less widely used or accepted than a competing technology, which could reduce the market appeal of our offerings and harm our reputation, diminish our brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we include software licensed from other parties in our offerings, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay availability of our offerings. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties in our offerings. aspects of our business could be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were no longer available to us, no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms or changed in ways or included defects that make the third-party software unsuitable for our use. in these cases, we would be required to either redesign our technologies to function with software available from other parties, develop these components ourselves or eliminate the functionality, which could result in increased costs, the need to mitigate customer issues, delays in delivery of our offerings and the release of new offerings and limit the features available in our current or future offerings. 25 table of contents risks related to legal uncertainty if our technologies are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we may be required to take costly and time-consuming actions to meet our commitments to customers. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our offerings are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the technology consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the technology so that its use is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and defend them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and we often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying these commitments could be costly, be time-consuming, divert the attention of technical and management personnel, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. finally, because we have agreed to defend our subscription customers against specified infringement claims arising from the use of our offerings, we could become involved in litigation brought against such customers if our services and technology are allegedly implicated. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights, and an unfavorable legal decision affecting our intellectual property could adversely affect our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, because our technologies are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. we are also unlikely to be able to assess adequately the relevance of patents to our technologies, and may be unable to take appropriate responsive action in a timely or economic manner because, among other reasons, the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined or readily determinable, patent applications in the u.s. are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing. our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may increase as a result of acquisitions. in addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition of such technology. in the past, our technologies have been subject to intellectual property infringement claims. some of these claims have been brought by entities that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property such as patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement. as these entities do not have operating businesses of their own and therefore have limited risk of counterclaims for damages or injunctive relief, it may be difficult to deter them from bringing intellectual property infringement claims. we expect to face the possibility of more intellectual property infringement claims as our prominence increases, business activities expand, market share and revenue grow, the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products in different portions of the industry overlap. we may not be able to accurately assess the risk related to these suits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. defending patent and other intellectual property claims, even claims without significant merit, can be time-consuming and costly and can divert the attention of technical and management personnel. we may receive unfavorable preliminary or interim rulings in the course of litigation, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. we may decide to settle certain lawsuits and disputes on terms that are disadvantageous to us. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease offering certain of our technologies or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue offering technologies found to be in violation of a third party's rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. as a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or practices or discontinue the practices. the development of alternative non-infringing technology or practices could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. an unfavorable legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings for additional information. 26 table of contents our activities, or the activities of our partners, may violate anti-corruption laws and regulations that apply to us. in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, there may be business practices that are prohibited by regulations that may apply to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to help promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, partners and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations or which we acquire, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any violation of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of software could adversely impact our business. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to import and export restrictions and regulations, including the export administration regulations administered by the u.s. commerce department's bureau of industry and security ( bis ) and the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control ( ofac ). the u.s., through the bis and ofac, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons ( denied parties ). violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products or services to the federal government. any such penalties could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. in addition, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant expense and reputational harm and distract senior executives from managing our normal day-to-day operations. our products could also be shipped to denied parties by third parties, including our channel partners. even though we take precautions to ensure that our channel partners comply with all relevant import and export regulations, any failure by our channel partners to comply with such regulations could have negative consequences for us, including reputational harm, government investigations and penalties. we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our technologies are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. additionally, if any of the open source components of our offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, then our ability to distribute or develop all or a portion of our offerings could be adversely impacted. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may become incompatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from distributing the software code subject to the modified license. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our collection of trademarks is valuable and important to our business. the protective steps we have taken in the past may have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. policing unauthorized use of our trademark rights is difficult, expensive and time-consuming and our efforts may be inadequate. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in various countries around the world. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to distribute our offerings. we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy one or more of our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. the loss of any material trademark could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 27 table of contents efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our technologies could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our technology innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be adversely affected as the community supports the ability to write and share code freely. this in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our technologies and further our research and development efforts, which could adversely affect our business. our patent promise on software patents limits our ability to enforce our patent rights in certain circumstances. as part of our commitment to the open source community, we provide our patent promise on software patents. under our patent promise, we agree, subject to certain limitations, to not enforce our patent rights against users of open source software covered by any open source license listed by the open source initiative as meeting its definition of open source or listed by the free software foundation as meeting its definition of free software. while we may be able to claim protection of our intellectual property under other rights, such as trade secrets or contractual rights, our patent promise effectively limits our ability to assert our patent rights against these third parties (even if we were to conclude that their use infringes our patents with competing offerings), unless any such third party asserts its patent rights against us. this limitation on our ability to assert our patent rights against others could harm our business and ability to compete. we are, and may become, involved in disputes and lawsuits that could adversely affect our business. lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. these disputes and proceedings may involve significant expense and divert the attention of management and other employees. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings for additional information. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations regarding data privacy and protection, our business could be adversely affected. our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations that apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and processing of personal data. these data privacy- and protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. for example, the european union has adopted the general data protection regulation, a new regulation effective may 2018 governing data practices and privacy that establishes new requirements applicable to the handling of personal data and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance. any failure by us to comply with data privacy- and protection-related laws and regulations could result in enforcement actions, significant penalties or other legal actions against us or our customers or suppliers. an actual or alleged failure to comply, which could result in negative publicity, reduce demand for our offerings, increase the cost of compliance, require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue, restrict our ability to provide our offerings in certain locations, result in our customers' inability to use our offerings and prohibit data transfers or result in other claims, liabilities or sanctions, including fines, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our business could be adversely affected. our contracts with our customers may include specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various government certification requirements, procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us or our channel partners to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations by us or our channel partners could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we may be subject to qui tam litigation, the process by which a private individual sues or prosecutes on behalf of the government relating to government contracts and shares in the proceeds of any successful litigation or settlement, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business and affect our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, if we are unable to meet government certification requirements, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 28 table of contents we may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. we provide offerings, such as red hat openshift, that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities. the law relating to the liability of providers of these online offerings for activities of their users is relatively unsettled and still developing both in the u.s. and internationally and may be significantly different from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. claims could be brought against us based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our customers. in addition, we could be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates applicable law. open source development and licensing practices may limit the value of our software copyright assets. our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux and red hat jboss middleware, are built primarily from software components licensed under various open source licenses. while some components are developed by our employees, we obtain many components from software developed and released by contributors to independent open source software development projects. open source licenses grant licensees broad permissions to use, copy, modify and redistribute the software. certain open source licenses, such as the gnu general public license, impose significant limits on a distributor's ability to license derivative works under more restrictive terms and generally require the distributor to disclose the source code of such works. the inclusion of software components governed by such licenses in our offerings limits our ability to use traditional proprietary software licensing models for those offerings. as a result, while we have substantial copyright interests in our software technologies, open source development and licensing practices may have the effect of limiting the value of our software copyright assets. risks related to financial uncertainty our quarterly and annual operating results may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance. due to the unpredictability of the it spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. our fourth fiscal quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for sales. this pattern has become more pronounced as the number of customers with renewal dates occurring in the last half of our fiscal year has continued to increase. additionally, a significant portion of our quarterly sales typically occur during the last weeks of the quarter and our operating results may be adversely impacted if we do not have sufficient time to bill and collect from our customers in the same quarter or fiscal year. some of our customers may wait until the end of the quarter to negotiate their contracts in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to execute these contracts within the same quarter. moreover, as an increasing number of customers enter into larger, multi-year transactions with us, such transactions tend to have longer sales cycles and can involve customers choosing to pay annually, which may impact our quarterly financial results. if, among other considerations, our future financial performance falls below the expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented approximately 43.6% of our total revenue for fiscal 2018 , continue to expand. our international operations accounted for approximately 43.6% of total revenue for fiscal 2018 . as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource or supplement general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize offerings for a significant number of international markets, which may adversely affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business globally that may adversely affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; pricing environments; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; 29 table of contents laws and policies of the u.s. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, immigration and taxes, including any adverse effects that may result from the united kingdom's vote to exit the european union; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners; differing technology standards and customer requirements; lower levels of availability or use of the internet, through which our software is often delivered; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights globally due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance and language, legal, cultural and other differences; different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with our brands; export and import laws and regulations that could prevent us from delivering our offerings into and from certain countries; public health risks and natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers that could affect the competitive pricing of our offerings and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets that could adversely affect our business in those markets or result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenue associated with them. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from our red hat enterprise linux platform. during fiscal 2018 , a substantial portion of our subscription revenue was derived from our red hat enterprise linux offerings. although we are continuing to develop other offerings, we expect that revenue from red hat enterprise linux will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. declines and variability in demand for red hat enterprise linux could occur as a result of: competitive products and pricing; failure to release new or enhanced versions of red hat enterprise linux on a timely basis, or at all; maturity of the market for red hat enterprise linux; technological change that we are unable to address with red hat enterprise linux; or future economic conditions. additionally, as more customers and potential customers virtualize their data centers and move computing projects to cloud environments, demand for operating systems such as red hat enterprise linux may decline. moreover, as data centers become more virtualized and move to cloud environments, we may experience a decline in growth if we are unsuccessful in adapting our business model and offerings accordingly. due to the concentration of our revenue from red hat enterprise linux, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected by a decline in demand for red hat enterprise linux. 30 table of contents we are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the u.s. dollar may affect our revenue, operating expenses and operating margins, which are reported in u.s. dollars. we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. for example, the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations decreases if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. as we expand international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations may increase. we may use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to economically hedge currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. if these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. for information regarding our hedging activity, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. if our growth rate slows, our stock price could be adversely affected. as the markets for our offerings mature and the scale of our business increases, our rate of revenue, deferred revenue and operating cash flow growth may be lower than the growth rates we experienced in earlier periods. in addition, to the extent that the adoption of our offerings occurs more slowly or is less pervasive than we expect or have experienced in the past, our growth rates may slow or decline, which could adversely affect our stock price. historical period-to-period comparisons of our revenue, deferred revenue and operating cash flow may not be meaningful and are not guarantees of our future performance. we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income tax and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. changes in tax laws, or in judicial or administrative interpretations of tax laws, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. significant judgment, knowledge and experience are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. our future effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors including our interpretation of the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) enacted into law on december 22, 2017 and any pending regulations and interpretive guidance to be released on the tax act, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, increases in expenses not deductible for tax, including impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions, and changes in available tax credits. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly and increasingly subject to audits by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. the results of an audit or litigation could adversely affect our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we anticipate that the u.s. department of the treasury, the internal revenue service and other standard-setting bodies may issue regulations and interpretive guidance on how the provisions of the tax act will be applied or otherwise administered, and additional regulations or interpretive guidance may be issued in the future that is different from our current interpretation. we have made significant judgments and assumptions in the interpretation of the tax act and in our calculations of the provisional amounts reflected in our financial statements. as we continue to analyze the tax act and collect relevant information to complete our computations of the related impact, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts that could materially affect our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made, which could have a significant impact on our future operating results and cash flows. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions that are not permanently reinvested may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. for example, as a consequence of the tax act, foreign earnings are now deemed to be repatriated resulting in a higher effective tax rate for the company's fiscal year ended february 28, 2018. in addition, the tax act will significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. numerous countries are evaluating their existing tax laws due in part, to recommendations made by the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd's ) base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) project and in response to the changes in u.s. tax laws. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any legislation based on such proposals may be adopted by the countries in which we do business, future tax reform based on such proposals may increase the amount of taxes we pay and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. 31 table of contents because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls. we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet these requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our offerings, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial condition of our business could be adversely affected, current and potential future stockholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price, and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects, including changes to previously filed financial statements, which could cause our stock to decline. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these principles are subject to interpretation by the u.s. securities and exchange commission and various bodies formed to create and interpret appropriate accounting principles and guidance. a change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a significant effect on our reported results, as well as our processes and related controls, and may retroactively affect previously reported results. for example, in may 2014, the financial accounting standards board issued accounting standards update 2014-09, revenue from contracts with customers , now commonly referred to as accounting standards codification topic 606 ( asc 606 ) . this guidance is effective for us beginning the first quarter of our fiscal year ending february 28, 2019. we are adopting asc 606 using the full retrospective transition method, and while the adoption of the new standard does not change the cash flows received from our contracts with customers, its adoption could adversely affect our financial position or operating results. further, we are implementing a new revenue recognition software tool in connection with our adoption of asc 606. if the new software tool does not work as expected and we incur additional costs or any new or revised internal controls implemented as a result of the adoption of asc 606 are insufficient, this could have an adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows. 32 table of contents for a discussion of the potential impact that the implementation of asc 606 is expected to have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and liquidity risks and fluctuations in the market value of our investments and interest rates. these risks may result in an impairment of, or the loss of all or a portion of, the value of our investments, an inability to sell our investments or a decline in interest income. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. our portfolio generally consists of certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate securities, european sovereign and agency securities with a rating of aa or higher, money market funds, and u.s. government and agency securities. although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the risks associated with our investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security or issuer, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value or become impaired, or that our interest income will not decline. a significant part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government and agency securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a default or downgrade of u.s. government or agency debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. future fluctuations and uncertainty in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could record additional impairment charges and lose some or all of the principal value of investments in our portfolio. a total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our investments in public and private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. some of these investments may have been made to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. our investments in public and private companies are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose the value of our entire investment in these companies. epidemics, geo-political events, internet and power outages or natural disasters could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. the occurrence of one or more epidemics, geo-political events (such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks), internet and power outages, telecommunications failures, fire or natural disasters (including those due to the effects of climate change such as increased storm severity, drought, wildfires, and potential flooding due to rising sea levels and storm surges) in a country in which we operate or in which technology industry suppliers or our customers are located, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of our customers to access our offerings, the inability of our associates to reach or have transportation to our facilities or our customers' facilities directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of our customers, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of computer hardware and related components, the disruption or delay in the manufacture and transport of goods globally, the disruption of utility services to our facilities or to suppliers, partners or customers, or disruption in our communications with our customers. 33 table of contents risks related to the convertible notes the convertible notes are effectively subordinated to any secured debt we incur in the future and to any liabilities of our subsidiaries. in october 2014, we issued $805.0 million of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the convertible notes ). the convertible notes will rank senior in right of payment to any of our indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the convertible notes; equal in right of payment to any of our existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities that are not so subordinated; effectively junior in right of payment to any of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and structurally junior to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries (including trade payables). in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding up, our assets that secure debt ranking senior in right of payment to the convertible notes will be available to pay obligations on the convertible notes only after the secured debt has been repaid in full from these assets, and the assets of our subsidiaries will be available to pay obligations on the convertible notes only after all claims senior to the convertible notes have been repaid in full. there may not be sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the convertible notes then outstanding. we may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions that could diminish our ability to make payments on the convertible notes. we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our future debt instruments, some of which may be secured debt. we are not restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the convertible notes when due. we may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the convertible notes in cash, repay the convertible notes at maturity or repurchase the convertible notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the convertible notes. holders of the convertible notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their convertible notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the convertible notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. in addition, upon conversion of the convertible notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the convertible notes being converted. however, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of the convertible notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to the convertible notes being converted or at their maturity. in addition, our ability to repurchase or to pay cash upon conversions of the convertible notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority or agreements governing our future indebtedness and is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our failure to repurchase the convertible notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the convertible notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. a fundamental change under the indenture or a default under the indenture could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. if the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the convertible notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. the conditional conversion feature of the convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. prior to april 1, 2019, holders of the convertible notes may elect to convert their notes during any fiscal quarter (and only during such fiscal quarter) if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than or equal to the conversion price of the convertible notes (the conversion condition ). the conversion condition was met for the convertible notes during the fiscal quarters ended august 31, 2017, november 30, 2017 and february 28, 2018, which means that the holders of the convertible notes may elect to convert such notes at their option at any time during the fiscal quarter ending may 31, 2018. if one or more holders elect to convert their convertible notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share) or electing to have a financial institution accept convertible notes in exchange for cash and/or shares of common stock, we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. 34 table of contents the accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the convertible notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. accounting standards codification subtopic 470-20, debt with conversion and other options ( asc 470-20 ), requires an entity to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's non-convertible debt interest rate. accordingly, the equity component of the convertible notes is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the convertible notes. as a result, we are required to recognize a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in our consolidated income statements in the current and future periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the convertible notes to their principal amount over the term of the convertible notes. we will report lower net income (or greater net losses) in our consolidated financial results because asc 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the original issue discount and the instrument's non-convertible interest rate. this could adversely affect our reported or future consolidated financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the convertible notes. in addition, under certain circumstances, in calculating earnings per share, convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, if any, are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the convertible notes exceeds their principal amount. under the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share is calculated as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, were issued. we cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. if we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, if any, then our diluted consolidated earnings per share would be adversely affected. the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. in connection with the sale of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with institutions that we refer to as the option counterparties. we also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties pursuant to which we sold warrants for the purchase of our common stock. the convertible note hedge transactions are expected to offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount upon conversion of any convertible notes. the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the relevant warrants, unless, subject to certain conditions, we elect to settle the warrants in cash. the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the convertible notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of the convertible notes or following any repurchase of convertible notes by us in connection with any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). this activity could suppress or inflate the market price of our common stock. we do not make any representation or prediction as to the direction or magnitude of any potential effect that the transactions described above may have on the price of the convertible notes or our common stock. in addition, we do not make any representation that the option counterparties or their respective affiliates will engage in these transactions or that these transactions, once commenced, will not be discontinued without notice. we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. the option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that these option counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. if one or more of the option counterparties to one or more of our convertible note hedge transactions becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in the volatility of the market price of our common stock. in addition, upon a default by one of the option counterparties, we may suffer dilution with respect to our common stock as well as adverse financial consequences. we can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the option counterparties. 35 table of contents risks related to ownership of our common stock our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new offerings by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, news reports relating to trends in our markets, the commencement or termination of any share repurchase program, general economic conditions and other risks listed herein. the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may issue or sell additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock and thereby materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, shares of our common stock. if we issue or sell additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance under our equity compensation plans, including for issuance upon the exercise of stock options and the vesting of performance share units, restricted stock, restricted stock units and deferred stock units. a substantial number of shares of our common stock are also reserved in relation to the convertible notes and the warrant transactions and for our employee stock purchase plan. we may not be able to predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. the issuance or sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances or sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity or equity-linked securities. we do not currently expect to pay dividends on our common stock, so any returns may be limited to changes in the value of our common stock. we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. we currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. in addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock may be prohibited or limited by the terms of any future debt financing arrangement. any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of our stock price. conversion of the convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their convertible notes, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock. the conversion of the convertible notes into shares of our common stock, to the extent that we choose not to deliver all cash for the conversion value, will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants due to this dilution or may facilitate trading strategies involving the convertible notes and our common stock. 36 table of contents provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, delaware law and the convertible notes may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. these provisions include: our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting; such provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock; the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware law anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. additionally, certain provisions of the convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us or could also have the effect of delaying or reducing the likelihood of a change in control of us even if such acquisition or change of control may be favorable to our stockholders. 37 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of short- and long-term investments in a variety of available-for-sale fixed- and floating-rate debt securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed-rate and floating-rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating-rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income related to these securities may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or perceived credit risk related to the securities' issuers. a hypothetical one-half percentage point change in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in an approximate $0.4 million change in annual interest income derived from investments in our portfolio as of february 28, 2018 . for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2018 and february 28, 2017 , see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 19 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. investment risk the fair value of our available-for-sale investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage point increase in prevailing interest rates would result in an approximate $8.3 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 28, 2018 . for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2018 and february 28, 2017 , see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 19 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. credit risk investments in debt and equity securities the fair values of our investment portfolio and cash balances are exposed to counterparty credit risk. accordingly, while we periodically review our portfolio in an effort to mitigate counterparty risk, the principal values of our cash balances, money market accounts and investments in available-for-sale securities could suffer a loss of value. accounts receivable as of february 28, 2018 and february 28, 2017 , no individual customer accounted for 10% or more of our total accounts receivable. foreign currency risk approximately 43.6% of our revenue for fiscal 2018 was produced by sales outside the united states. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of net income. the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations decrease if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. using the average foreign currency exchange rates from fiscal 2017 , our revenue and operating expenses from non-u.s. operations for fiscal 2018 would have been lower than we reported by approximately $33.7 million and $26.8 million , respectively, which would have resulted in income from operations being lower by $6.9 million . 64 table of contents convertible notes in october 2014, we issued $805.0 million of 0.25% convertible notes due 2019. the convertible notes have a fixed annual interest rate of 0.25%, and, therefore, we do not have economic interest-rate exposure on the convertible notes. however, the fair value of the convertible notes is exposed to interest rate risk. generally, the fair value of the convertible notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. for further discussion regarding the fair value of the convertible notes, see note 11 convertible notes to our consolidated financial statements. in connection with the sale of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions. the convertible note hedge transactions are expected to offset, to the extent that the market price per share of the company's common stock does not exceed $101.65, the potential dilution with respect to shares of our common stock upon any conversion of the convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments that we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of the converted notes, as the case may be. the warrant transactions will have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the warrant transactions, exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. however, subject to certain conditions, we may elect to settle all of the warrants in cash. the initial strike price of the warrants is $101.65 per share. the number of shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is 10,965,630 shares, subject to anti-dilution adjustments. the convertible note hedge and warrants are both considered indexed to our common stock and classified as equity; therefore, the convertible note hedge and warrants are not accounted for as derivative instruments. derivative instruments we transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. from time to time we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. all derivative instruments are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their respective fair values. we generally elect not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify our forward contracts for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in our consolidated statements of operations. however, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we repatriated cash from certain of our foreign subsidiaries and entered into a foreign currency forward contract designated as a net investment hedge. as a result of this designation, changes in fair value of the forward contract were recognized as a charge included in other comprehensive income change in foreign currency translation adjustment. for further discussion related to our management of foreign currency risk, see note 9 derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2018 was $62.3 million . the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2018 was a gross $0.3 million asset and a gross $0.3 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. the forward contracts generally expire within three months of the period ended february 28, 2018 . the forward contracts will settle in australian dollars, euros, hong kong dollars, japanese yen, norwegian krona, singapore dollars, swedish krona and swiss francs. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2017 was $48.8 million . the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2017 was a gross $0.1 million asset and a gross $0.2 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. 65 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. please carefully consider the following risks and cautionary statements. if any event related to the following risk factors occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. risks related to the merger the announcement and pendency of our agreement to be acquired by international business machines corporation may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. on october 28, 2018, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the merger agreement ) with international business machines corporation, a new york corporation ( ibm ), and socrates acquisition corp., a delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of ibm ( sub ), pursuant to which, among other things, sub will merge with and into us, with red hat surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of ibm (the merger ). upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the merger agreement, at the effective time of the merger (the effective time ), each share of our common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time will be cancelled and automatically converted into the right to receive $190.00 in cash, without interest and subject to any applicable withholding taxes. uncertainty about the effect of the proposed merger on our employees, partners, customers and other third parties may disrupt our sales and marketing or other key business activities and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their roles following the merger and this may have an effect on our corporate culture. there can be no assurance we will be able to attract and retain key talent, including senior leaders, to the same extent that we have previously been able to attract and retain employees. any loss or distraction of such employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, we have diverted, and will continue to divert, significant management and other internal resources towards the completion of the merger and planning for integration, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. parties with which we have business relationships may experience uncertainty as to the future of such relationships and may delay or defer certain business decisions, seek alternative relationships with third parties or seek to alter their present business relationships with us. parties with whom we otherwise may have sought to establish business relationships may seek alternative relationships with third parties. the merger agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the proposed merger and restricts us, without ibm's consent, from taking certain specified actions until the merger is completed. these restrictions may affect our ability to execute our business strategies, to respond effectively to competitive pressures and industry developments, and to attain our financial and other goals and may otherwise harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. the failure to complete the merger with ibm in a timely manner or at all could negatively impact the market price of our common stock as well as adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. completion of the merger with ibm is subject to several conditions beyond our control that may prevent, delay or otherwise adversely affect its completion in a material way, including the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods under antitrust and competition laws and similar competition approvals or consents that must be obtained from regulatory entities. the merger cannot be completed until the conditions to closing are satisfied or (if permissible under applicable law) waived. we cannot guarantee that the closing conditions set forth in the merger agreement will be satisfied or, even if satisfied, that no event of termination will take place. in the event that the merger is not completed for any reason, the holders of our common stock will not receive any payment for their shares of common stock in connection with the proposed merger. instead, we will remain an independent public company and the holders of our common stock will continue to own their shares of common stock. if the merger or a similar transaction is not completed, the share price of our common stock may drop to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. in addition, under circumstances specified in the merger agreement, we may be required to pay a termination fee of $975.0 million in the event the merger is not consummated. further, a failure to complete the merger may result in negative publicity, negative impressions of us in the financial markets and investment community and negative responses from customers, partners and other third parties. any disruption to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the merger and from intensifying competition from our competitors, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our employees, partners, customers and other third parties, could continue or accelerate in the event of a failure to complete the merger. there can be no assurance that our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows will not be adversely affected, as compared to our condition prior to the announcement of the merger, if the merger is not consummated. 16 table of contents regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer than expected or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or that cannot be met. before the merger may be completed, various approvals, authorizations and declarations of non-objection must be obtained from certain regulatory and governmental authorities. subject to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, each party has agreed to use their reasonable best efforts to take all actions and to do, or cause to be done, all things reasonably necessary, proper or advisable under applicable laws to consummate the merger and the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement as soon as practicable and no later than the termination date of the merger agreement, including obtaining any requisite approvals, subject to certain specified limitations under the merger agreement. these approvals include approval under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, and the council regulation 139/2004 of the european union. these regulatory and governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of such approvals and if such regulatory and governmental entities seek to impose such conditions, lengthy negotiations may ensue among such regulatory or governmental entities, ibm and us. such conditions and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger and such conditions may not be satisfied for an extended period of time. we cannot assure you that these regulatory clearances and approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or obtained at all, or that the granting of these regulatory clearances and approvals will not involve the imposition of regulatory remedies on the completion of the merger, including requiring changes to the terms of the merger agreement. these conditions or changes could result in the conditions to the closing of the merger not being satisfied. our stockholders approved the adoption of the merger agreement at a special meeting of stockholders on january 16, 2019 prior to receipt of all of the required regulatory approvals. we and ibm may subsequently agree to regulatory remedies without further seeking stockholder approval, except as required by applicable law, even if such regulatory remedies could have an adverse effect on us, ibm or the combined company. the merger agreement contains provisions that could discourage or deter a potential competing acquirer that might be willing to pay more to effect an alternative transaction with us. under the merger agreement, we are generally not permitted to solicit or discuss takeover proposals with third parties, subject to certain exceptions. further, subject to limited exceptions, the merger agreement contains restrictions on our ability to pursue other alternatives to the merger and, in specified circumstances, could require us to pay ibm a termination fee of $975.0 million. such restrictions may discourage or deter a third party that may be willing to pay more than ibm for our common stock from considering or proposing an alternative transaction with us. notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will the termination fee be paid to ibm more than once. in addition, the adoption of the merger agreement by our stockholders eliminated our right to terminate the merger agreement in response to a superior proposal. additional information regarding these restrictions is provided in the definitive proxy statement on schedule 14a (the proxy statement ) that we filed with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) on december 12, 2018. we have been and may be subject to litigation challenging the merger, which may require significant management time and attention and significant legal expenses and may result in unfavorable outcomes, which could delay or prevent the merger from being completed or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. three putative class action complaints were filed on behalf of company stockholders in the united states district court for the district of delaware against red hat and its board of directors (the actions ). the complaints alleged that the proxy statement filed in connection with the merger agreement omitted material information in violation of sections 14(a) and 20(a) of the securities exchange act, rendering the proxy statement false and misleading. among other remedies, the complaints sought to enjoin the special meeting of our stockholders and the closing of the merger, as well as damages, costs and attorneys' fees. on january 4, 2019, the parties reached an agreement whereby the actions were dismissed as moot in exchange for supplemental disclosures filed by the company. those supplemental disclosures were filed by the company as definitive additional proxy soliciting material on schedule 14a with the sec on january 4, 2019. the actions were dismissed on january 8, 2019 and january 9, 2019. plaintiffs in the actions have reserved the right to seek an award of attorneys' fees for causing the filing of the supplemental disclosures. in addition, while the actions have been dismissed, it is possible that additional lawsuits related to the merger may be filed in the future against the company, in which case we could be materially and adversely affected by such additional litigation. 17 table of contents the completion of the transaction contemplated by the merger agreement may trigger change in control or other similar provisions in certain agreements to which we are a party. if we are unable to negotiate waivers of change in control or other similar provisions in certain agreements to which we are a party, the counterparties may exercise their rights and remedies under the agreements, potentially terminating the agreements or seeking monetary damages. even if we are able to negotiate waivers, the counterparties may require a fee for such waivers or seek to renegotiate the agreements on terms less favorable to us. we will incur substantial transaction fees and costs in connection with the merger. we have and expect to continue to incur significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the merger. a material portion of these expenses are payable by us whether or not the merger is completed. further, while we have assumed that a certain amount of transaction expenses will be incurred, factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses. many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses may exceed the costs historically borne by us. these costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. risks related to business uncertainty we face intense competition. the enterprise software industry is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and is subject to changing technologies, shifting customer needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services by both new and established information technology ( it ) companies. we compete based on our ability to provide our customers with enterprise software and related service offerings that best meet their needs at a compelling price. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors' products may provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our offerings. competitive pressures could also affect the prices we may charge or the demand for our offerings, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market share. our current and potential competitors range from large and well-established companies to emerging start-ups. some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and name recognition, larger development and sales staffs and more extensive marketing and distribution capabilities. certain competitors also bundle hardware and software offerings, making it more difficult for us to penetrate their customer bases, while other competitors may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can. as the enterprise software industry evolves, the competitive pressure for us to innovate encompasses a wider range of products and services, including new offerings that require different expertise than our current offerings. moreover, if we are unable to effectively communicate the value of our subscription model, we may not compete effectively in attracting new, and maintaining existing, customers. given the rapid evolving nature of the enterprise software industry, the competitive landscape and the nature of the competition are constantly changing. consolidation and divestitures in the technology industry are trends that we expect to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain market positions as the technology industry evolves. industry consolidation may affect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete or competitors that position themselves as key or single-source vendors providing end-to-end technology solutions for the data center. moreover, other companies may currently be planning to, or are under pressure by stockholders to, divest businesses. these divestitures may result in additional competitors that may have an advantage by focusing on a single product or service. we also compete in certain areas with our partners and potential partners, some of which may from time to time form new strategic alliances designed to position one or more of them as a key or single-source vendor, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. our efforts to compete effectively may not be sufficient, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 18 table of contents our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry. investment in new offerings, business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, such as the transition of many of our enterprise customers to cloud computing environments and frequent new product and service announcements. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies and user preferences, to adapt our offerings to evolving industry standards, to predict user preferences and industry changes in order to continue to provide value to our customers and to improve the performance and reliability of our offerings. our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business, and our efforts to adapt to such changes could require substantial expenditures on our part to modify our offerings or infrastructure. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings and technologies could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings and technologies. the success of new and enhanced offering introductions depends on several factors, including our ability to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings in a timely manner, successfully promote the offerings, manage the risks associated with the offerings, make sufficient resources available to support the offerings and address any quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. even if we are able to enhance our existing offerings or introduce new offerings that are well perceived by the market, if our marketing or sales efforts do not generate interest in or sales for these offerings, they may be unsuccessful. moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and technology road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management's attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading cloud service providers, hardware original equipment manufacturers ( oems ), independent software vendors ( isvs ) and system integrators ( sis ) to help us attract and retain a larger customer base. many of these strategic partners have engineered and certified that their technologies run on or with our offerings and, in some cases, have built their products and solutions using our offerings. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms in the future. some of our strategic partners offer competing products and services. as a result of these factors, many of the companies with which we have strategic alliances may choose to pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our offerings, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our offerings effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. as our agreements with strategic partners terminate or expire, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. we rely, to a significant degree, on indirect sales channels for the distribution of our offerings, and disruption within these channels could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we use a variety of different indirect distribution methods for our offerings, including channel partners, such as certified cloud and service providers, distributors, embedded technology partners, oems, isvs, sis and value added resellers. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of channel partners with whom we have no direct relationship. these relationships allow us to offer our technologies to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we rely, to a significant degree, on each of our channel partners to select, screen and maintain relationships with its distribution network and to distribute our offerings in a manner that is consistent with applicable law and regulatory requirements and our quality standards. if our channel partners or a partner in its distribution network violate applicable law or regulatory requirements or misrepresent the functionality of our offerings, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to potential liability. furthermore, our channel partners may offer their own products and services or the products and services of other companies that compete with our offerings or may not distribute and market our offerings effectively. moreover, our existing channel partner relationships do not, and any future channel partner relationships may not, provide for any exclusivity regarding marketing or distribution. in addition, if a channel partner is acquired by a competitor, its business units are reorganized or divested or its financial condition were to weaken, our revenue derived from that partner may be adversely impacted. 19 table of contents recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our enterprise technologies requires significant time and resources. if we fail to devote sufficient resources to support and expand our network of channel partners, our business may be adversely affected. in addition, because we rely on channel partners for the indirect distribution of our enterprise technologies, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate end-users of our technologies, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our software, support ongoing customer requirements, estimate end-user demand, respond to evolving customer needs and obtain subscription renewals from end-users. a portion of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through our channel partners. government entities may have statutory, contractual, or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our channel partners for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future operating results. government entities routinely investigate and audit government contractors' administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in a government entity refusing to continue buying our offerings, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. if our indirect distribution channel is disrupted, we may be required to devote more resources to distribute our offerings directly and support our customers, which may not be as effective and could lead to higher costs, reduced revenue and growth that is slower than expected. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations significantly in recent years. for example, our total revenue increased from $2.92 billion for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2018 to $3.36 billion for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2019 ( fiscal 2019 ). moreover, the total number of our employees increased from approximately 11,870 as of february 28, 2018 to approximately 13,360 as of february 28, 2019 . in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully provide our offerings and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources, internal controls and oversight from our senior management. as we expand in international markets, these challenges increase as a result of the need to support a growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, dispute resolution systems, regulatory systems and commercial practices. as we grow, (i) we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise, manage or develop sufficient personnel, and (ii) we may not be able to develop or effectively manage our controls, oversight functions or information systems. if we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, divert management's attention, adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows or dilute stockholder value. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions, and we may continue to do so in the future, subject to the restrictions under the merger agreement. under the terms of the merger agreement, without the consent of ibm, we may not acquire businesses outside of the ordinary course of business above specified thresholds or that could reasonably be expected to increase the risk of not obtaining, or the risk of materially impeding or delaying the obtaining of, any regulatory approvals with respect to the merger. these types of transactions can increase the expense of running our business and present significant challenges and risks, including: integrating the acquired business' accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and reporting, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; incorporating and further developing acquired products or technology into our offerings and maintaining quality standards consistent with our brands; effectively evaluating talent at an acquired business or identifying cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired business into our organization; losing key employees of the acquired business; achieving the expected benefits of the transaction, which may include generating greater market acceptance of our offerings and technologies, increasing our revenue or integrating the assets acquired into one or more of our current offerings; 20 table of contents increasing or adding operating expenses related to the acquired business or technology; identifying acquisition targets that complement our strategic direction and technology road map; gathering full information regarding a business or technology prior to a transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected tax implications and other adverse effects on our business; maintaining or establishing acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; disrupting our ongoing business and distracting management; impairing relationships with our employees, partners or customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel, products or technology or as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape affected by the transaction; maintaining good relationships with customers or business partners of the acquired business; incurring expenses related to the transaction; assuming claims and liabilities from the acquired business or technology, or that are otherwise related to the transaction; entering into new markets in which we have little or no experience or in which competitors may have stronger market positions; impairing of intangible assets and goodwill acquired in transactions; and for foreign transactions, managing additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing transactions that we have pursued or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing and completing such transactions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, or we may incur substantial debt. we could also issue additional securities as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. any transaction may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, or may take longer to do so than expected, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our offerings and third-party products upon which our offerings depend may contain errors or defects that may be costly to correct or work around, delay market acceptance of our enterprise technologies and expose us to claims and litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and may continue to be found in our offerings after deployment. this risk is amplified by the fact that much of the code in our offerings is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them, and we may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. in addition, errors or defects (including deviations from published specifications) in our technologies or the design architecture or implementation of third-party products upon which our offerings depend could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. for example, in january 2018, computer security researchers publicly disclosed the discovery of hardware-based security vulnerabilities known as meltdown and spectre. the meltdown and spectre vulnerabilities affect many modern microprocessors and could allow an unauthorized individual to gain access to privileged memory that would otherwise be inaccessible. while we have issued updates for our offerings designed to address the meltdown and spectre vulnerabilities, such updates could slow the performance of affected machines. meltdown and spectre and similar vulnerabilities, errors or defects in our technologies or the third-party products on which our offerings depend could cause system failures, security breaches, loss of data, performance issues or other adverse effects for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. 21 table of contents although our agreements with our customers often contain provisions that seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. while we seek to insure against these types of claims, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to such claims. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. any errors or defects in our offerings or third-party products upon which our offerings depend could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our offerings, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue, damage to our reputation, declining market acceptance of emerging technologies, such as cloud computing, negatively affect demand for our technologies or delay their release, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. security breaches and data loss may expose us to liability, harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. our business involves the production and distribution of enterprise software technologies, as well as hosting applications. as part of our business, we receive, store and process our data, as well as our employees', customers' and partners' data. we also work with third-party service providers and vendors that offer technologies, systems and services that we use in our business operations and in connection with the receipt, storage and processing of such data. while we take security measures relating to our offerings and business operations seriously and devote significant resources to implement and maintain security measures, those measures (or those of our third-party service providers and vendors) may not prevent security breaches or data loss or unauthorized disclosure that could harm our business, our employees or the businesses of our customers and partners. inadequate technology or security measures, the failure to follow proper security protocols or other factors may result in data loss or unauthorized disclosure or a compromise or breach of our systems and the data we receive, store and process (or systems and the data received, stored and processed by our third-party service providers and vendors). security measures may be breached or data may be lost or disclosed by third parties (such as through social engineering techniques to induce disclosure of passwords or other sensitive information, other actions to gain access to our data or our customers' or partners' data, or the use of ineffective security measures or failure to follow proper security protocols), human error (such as the use of weak passwords or unencrypted devices), malfeasance or vulnerabilities (including vulnerabilities in third-party products upon which our offerings depend as well as vulnerabilities of our third-party service providers and vendors) or bugs found in software code. a party who is able to circumvent security measures or exploit inadequacies in security measures, could, among other things, misappropriate proprietary information (including information about our employees, customers and partners, our customers' information, financial data and data that others could use to compete against us), cause the loss, misuse or disclosure of some or all of this information, cause interruptions or denial of service in our or our customers' operations, cause delays in development efforts or expose customers (and their customers) to computer viruses or other disruptions or vulnerabilities. a compromise to these systems could remain undetected for an extended period of time, exacerbating the impact of that compromise. while we have not experienced a cybersecurity incident that has had a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results or cash flows, we have experienced the unauthorized exposure of limited data by a third-party service provider. risks arising from or related to security breaches or data loss are likely to increase as we continue to grow our cloud and services offerings and as we receive, store and process more data. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to regulatory investigations and sanctions, claims against us by current or former employees, customers, partners or other third parties, or costs, such as those related to providing breach notifications and fraud monitoring. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of remediating any incidents, implementing further data protection measures or upgrading our cybersecurity systems could be significant. moreover, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, often grow more complex over time and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate and timely preventative measures, which could exacerbate the effects of a breach. we can make no assurance that we will be able to detect, prevent, timely and adequately address, or mitigate the negative effects of cyberattacks or other security breaches. any loss of data or compromise of our systems or the data we receive, store or process (or systems and the data received, stored and processed by our third-party service providers and vendors) could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings, damage our reputation, cause the loss of current or potential customers or partners, lead to legal liability and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 22 table of contents the duration and extent of economic downturns, regional financial instability, and economic and market conditions in general could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. economic weakness and uncertainty, tightened credit markets and constrained it spending from time to time contribute to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the industries of our customers and the geographic regions in which we operate, which may result in reduced demand and increased price competition for our offerings. our operating results in one or more geographic regions or customer industries may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region or industry. uncertainty about future economic conditions may, among other things, negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases or lengthen our sales cycle. adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, such conditions may impact our investment portfolio, and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. also, such conditions may make it more difficult to forecast operating results. if global economic conditions, or economic conditions in the u.s., europe, asia or in other key geographic regions or customer industries, were to deteriorate, current and prospective customers may delay or reduce their it spending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we depend on our key employees, and our inability to attract and retain such employees could adversely affect our business or diminish our brands. competition in our industry for qualified employees, especially sales and technical employees, is intense and our competitors may directly target our employees. our inability to attract and retain key employees could hinder our influence in open source projects and seriously impede our success. we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we may experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. potential changes to u.s. immigration policies may inhibit our ability to hire and retain qualified employees to the extent these policies restrain the mobility of technical and professional talent. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited, that they have divulged proprietary or other confidential information, or that their former employers own their inventions or other work product. moreover, the loss of these key employees, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish our brands. a number of our key employees have become, or will become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly appreciated in value. additionally, as we grow, there may be less equity compensation to award per employee. if we do not succeed in attracting and retaining key personnel, our business, financial performance, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain capable management. our future success depends on the continued services and effectiveness of a number of key management personnel. the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, could adversely affect our business or stock price. our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent that other companies are able to offer more attractive opportunities to the individuals we seek to hire or retain. in addition, historically we have used share-based compensation as a key component of our compensation packages. if the price of our common stock falls, the value of our share-based awards to recipients is reduced. such events, or if we are unable to secure stockholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for share-based compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key management personnel could hinder our strategic planning and execution. 23 table of contents because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry into the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone may modify and redistribute the existing open source software and use it to compete with us. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions or acquire a smaller business that has developed open source offerings that compete with our offerings, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our offerings. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. additionally, any failure by us to provide high-quality technical support, or the perception that we do not provide high-quality technical support, could harm our reputation and negatively impact our ability to sell subscriptions for our open source offerings to existing and prospective customers. if we are unable to differentiate our open source offerings from those of our competitors or compete effectively with other open source offerings, our business, financial condition, operation results and cash flows could be adversely affected. our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and collaboration fostered by our culture, and our business may be adversely affected. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and collaboration. as our organization grows, our employees (including remote workers) and our resources become more globally dispersed and our organizational management structures become more complex, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain these beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees, continue to perform at current levels or execute on our business strategy. as a result, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. our emerging technology offerings are based on developing technologies and business models, and the potential market for these offerings remains uncertain. our emerging technology offerings, which include our cloud and storage offerings, are based on developing technologies and business models, the success of which will depend on the technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the adoption of these technologies. these technologies are rapidly evolving, and their development is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment as well as the accurate anticipation of technology trends, market demand and customer needs. we expect competition to remain intense and, as with many emerging it sectors, these technologies may be subject to a first mover effect pursuant to which certain product offerings rapidly capture a significant portion of market share and developer attention. moreover, we may make errors in reacting to relevant business trends and predicting which technologies will be successful or otherwise develop into industry standards. adoption of emerging technologies may occur more slowly or less pervasively than we expect and the revenue growth associated with these offerings may be slower than currently expected. moreover, even if emerging technologies are adopted widely by enterprises, our offerings in these areas may not attract a sufficient number of users or generate attractive financial results. we incur expenses associated with these offerings in advance of our ability to generate associated revenue. demand for our emerging technology offerings may unfavorably impact demand for our other offerings, including software subscriptions and related professional services. for example, revenue growth in our middleware portfolio has moderated as customers shift their workloads from traditional java deployments to containerized environments with middleware-as-a-service on openshift. if the market for our emerging technologies offerings fails to develop adequately, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 24 table of contents we may experience a decline in the demand for our offerings. demand for our offerings depends substantially on the general demand for enterprise software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. in addition, our customers generally undertake a significant evaluation process that may result in a lengthy sales cycle. we spend substantial time, effort, and money on our sales efforts, including developing and implementing appropriate go-to-market strategies and training our sales force and channel partners in order to effectively market new offerings, without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. the ability of our sales team to execute effectively has also adversely impacted financial performance in certain geographic regions from time to time. the purchase of our offerings may be discretionary and can involve significant expenditures. if our current and prospective customers cut costs, then they may significantly reduce their enterprise software expenditures. an increased focus on developing and providing emerging technology offerings may place a greater emphasis on marketing more holistic solutions, rather than individual offerings. consequently, we may need to adapt our marketing and pricing strategies for our offerings, our customers' purchasing decisions may become more complex and require a more significant evaluation process and additional levels of approval and the duration of sales cycles for our offerings may increase. if demand for our offerings declines, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. if our customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, if they renew on less favorable terms, or if they renew their subscription agreements prior to the expiration of such agreements, our business, financial results, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. our customers may not renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may choose a lower-priced edition of our offerings, fewer subscriptions or to renew their subscription agreements prior to the expiration of such agreements. our historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals is not predictive of future customer renewal rates. our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our offerings, their ability to implement our hybrid cloud technologies and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates or a change in renewal timing for our customers or they opt for lower-priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. our business model may encounter customer resistance. we provide red hat enterprise technologies primarily under annual or multi-year subscriptions. a subscription generally entitles a customer to, among other things, a specified level of support, as well as security updates, fixes, functionality enhancements, upgrades to the technologies, each, if and when available, and compatibility with an ecosystem of certified hardware and software. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, customers may fail to honor the terms of our subscription agreements. as technologies and the markets for our enterprise offerings change, our annual or multi-year subscription-based business model may no longer meet the needs of our customers. for example, a business model based on annual or multi-year subscriptions may no longer be competitive in an environment where disruptive technologies (such as cloud computing) enable customers to consume competitive offerings available from companies such as amazon web services, inc., google inc. and microsoft corporation on an hourly basis or for free. we also develop and offer these disruptive technologies with consumption-based pricing, which may have an effect on the demand for our subscription-based offerings. if we are unable to adapt our business model to changes in the marketplace, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. 25 table of contents if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make their products and services compatible with our offerings, our software may cease to be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. the competitive position of our offerings is dependent on their compatibility with products and services of third-party enterprise hardware and software companies. to the extent that a hardware or software vendor might have or develop products and services that compete with ours, the vendor may have an incentive to seek to limit the performance, functionality or compatibility of our offerings when used with one or more of the vendor's offerings. in addition, these vendors may fail to support or issue statements of compatibility or certification of our offerings when used with their offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to our offerings, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various third-party hardware and software offerings by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware and software vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our offerings may not be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new technologies, adequately enhance our existing technologies or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our enterprise technologies. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our offerings or we would need to develop and enhance our offerings with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our technology release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our offerings could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. our continued success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance strong brands. we believe that the brand identities that we have developed have contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to expanding our customer and partner base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brands, we may be required to make further investments that may not be successful. maintaining our brands will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high-quality offerings. if we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. we are vulnerable to technology infrastructure failures, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, and the technology infrastructure of third parties, for many functions, including selling our offerings, supporting our partners, fulfilling orders and billing, and collecting and making payments. this technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer intrusions, vulnerabilities and viruses, software errors, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of the systems making up this infrastructure are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for every eventuality. this technology infrastructure may fail or be vulnerable to damage or interruption because of actions by third parties or employee error or malfeasance. we may not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of technology infrastructure failures or to cover all contingencies. any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers or partners may cause a reduction in customer or partner satisfaction levels, which in turn could cause additional claims, reduced revenue or loss of customers or partners. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, a loss of data, loss of confidence in the stability and reliability of our offerings, damage to our reputation, and legal liability, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 26 table of contents a decline in or reprioritization of funding in the u.s. or foreign government budgets or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we derive, and expect to continue to derive, a portion of our revenue from u.s. and foreign governments. government deficit reduction and austerity measures can place pressure on u.s. and foreign government spending. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. the termination of, or delayed or reduced funding for, government-sponsored programs and contracts from which we derive revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our offerings, damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. as a result, a new technology we acquire or adopt and incorporate into our offerings could become less widely used or accepted than a competing technology, which could reduce the market appeal of our offerings and harm our reputation, diminish our brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we include software licensed from other parties in our offerings, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay availability of our offerings. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties in our offerings. aspects of our business could be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were no longer available to us, no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms or changed in ways or included defects that make the third-party software unsuitable for our use. in these cases, we would be required to either redesign our technologies to function with software available from other parties, develop these components ourselves or eliminate the functionality, which could result in increased costs, the need to mitigate customer issues, delays in delivery of our offerings and the release of new offerings and limit the features available in our current or future offerings. risks related to legal uncertainty if our technologies are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we may be required to take costly and time-consuming actions to meet our commitments to customers. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our offerings are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the technology consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the technology so that its use is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and defend them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and we often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying these commitments could be costly, be time-consuming, divert the attention of technical and management personnel, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. finally, because we have agreed to defend our subscription customers against specified infringement claims arising from the use of our offerings, we could become involved in litigation brought against such customers if our services and technology are allegedly implicated. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights, and an unfavorable legal decision affecting our intellectual property could adversely affect our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, because our technologies are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. we are also unlikely to be able to assess adequately the relevance of patents to our technologies, and may be unable to take appropriate responsive action in a timely or economic manner because, among other reasons, the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined or readily determinable, patent applications in the u.s. are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing. our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may increase as a result of acquisitions. in addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition of such technology. 27 table of contents in the past, our technologies have been subject to intellectual property infringement claims. some of these claims have been brought by entities that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property such as patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement. as these entities do not have operating businesses of their own and therefore have limited risk of counterclaims for damages or injunctive relief, it may be difficult to deter them from bringing intellectual property infringement claims. we expect to face the possibility of more intellectual property infringement claims as our prominence increases, business activities expand, market share and revenue grow, the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products in different portions of the industry overlap. we may not be able to accurately assess the risk related to these suits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. defending patent and other intellectual property claims, even claims without significant merit, can be time-consuming and costly and can divert the attention of technical and management personnel. we may receive unfavorable preliminary or interim rulings in the course of litigation, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. we may decide to settle certain lawsuits and disputes on terms that are disadvantageous to us. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease offering certain of our technologies or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue offering technologies found to be in violation of a third party's rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. as a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or practices or discontinue the practices. the development of alternative non-infringing technology or practices could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. an unfavorable legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings for additional information. our activities, or the activities of our partners, may violate anti-corruption laws and regulations that apply to us. in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, there may be business practices that are prohibited by regulations that may apply to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to help promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, partners and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations or which we acquire, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any violation of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of software could adversely impact our business. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to import and export restrictions and regulations, including the export administration regulations administered by the u.s. commerce department's bureau of industry and security ( bis ) and the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control ( ofac ). the u.s., through the bis and ofac, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons ( denied parties ). violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products or services to the federal government. any such penalties could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. in addition, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant expense and reputational harm and distract senior executives from managing our normal day-to-day operations. our products could also be shipped to denied parties by third parties, including our channel partners. even though we take precautions to ensure that our channel partners comply with all relevant import and export regulations, any failure by our channel partners to comply with such regulations could have negative consequences for us, including reputational harm, government investigations and penalties. 28 table of contents we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our technologies are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. additionally, if any of the open source components of our offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, then our ability to distribute or develop all or a portion of our offerings could be adversely impacted. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may become incompatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from distributing the software code subject to the modified license. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our collection of trademarks is valuable and important to our business. the protective steps we have taken in the past may have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. policing unauthorized use of our trademark rights is difficult, expensive and time-consuming and our efforts may be inadequate. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in various countries around the world. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to distribute our offerings. we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy one or more of our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. the loss of any material trademark could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our technologies could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our technology innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be adversely affected as the community supports the ability to write and share code freely. this in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our technologies and further our research and development efforts, which could adversely affect our business. our patent promise on software patents limits our ability to enforce our patent rights in certain circumstances. as part of our commitment to the open source community, we provide our patent promise on software patents. under our patent promise, we agree, subject to certain limitations, to not enforce our patent rights against users of open source software covered by any open source license listed by the open source initiative as meeting its definition of open source or listed by the free software foundation as meeting its definition of free software. while we may be able to claim protection of our intellectual property under other rights, such as trade secrets or contractual rights, our patent promise effectively limits our ability to assert our patent rights against these third parties (even if we were to conclude that their use infringes our patents with competing offerings), unless any such third party asserts its patent rights against us. this limitation on our ability to assert our patent rights against others could harm our business and ability to compete. we are, and may become, involved in disputes and lawsuits that could adversely affect our business. lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. these disputes and proceedings may involve significant expense and divert the attention of management and other employees. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings for additional information. 29 table of contents if we fail to comply with laws and regulations regarding data privacy and protection, our business could be adversely affected. our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations that apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and processing of personal data. these data privacy- and protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation took effect in may 2018, establishing new requirements applicable to the handling and processing of personal data and providing for greater penalties for noncompliance. any failure by us to comply with data privacy- and protection-related laws and regulations could result in enforcement actions, significant penalties or other legal actions against us or our customers or suppliers. an actual or alleged failure to comply, which could result in negative publicity, reduce demand for our offerings, increase the cost of compliance, require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue, restrict our ability to provide our offerings in certain locations, result in our customers' inability to use our offerings and prohibit data transfers or result in other claims, liabilities or sanctions, including fines, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our business could be adversely affected. our contracts with our customers may include specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various government certification requirements, procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us or our channel partners to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations by us or our channel partners could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we may be subject to qui tam litigation, the process by which a private individual sues or prosecutes on behalf of the government relating to government contracts and shares in the proceeds of any successful litigation or settlement, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business and affect our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, if we are unable to meet government certification requirements, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. we provide offerings, such as red hat openshift, that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities. the law relating to the liability of providers of these online offerings for activities of their users is relatively unsettled and still developing both in the u.s. and internationally and may be significantly different from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. claims could be brought against us based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our customers. in addition, we could be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates applicable law. open source development and licensing practices may limit the value of our software copyright assets. our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux and red hat middleware, are built primarily from software components licensed under various open source licenses. while some components are developed by our employees, we obtain many components from software developed and released by contributors to independent open source software development projects. open source licenses grant licensees broad permissions to use, copy, modify and redistribute the software. certain open source licenses, such as the gnu general public license, impose significant limits on a distributor's ability to license derivative works under more restrictive terms and generally require the distributor to disclose the source code of such works. the inclusion of software components governed by such licenses in our offerings limits our ability to use traditional proprietary software licensing models for those offerings. as a result, while we have substantial copyright interests in our software technologies, open source development and licensing practices may have the effect of limiting the value of our software copyright assets. 30 table of contents risks related to financial uncertainty our quarterly and annual operating results may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance. due to the unpredictability of the it spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short-term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. our fourth fiscal quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for sales. this pattern has become more pronounced as the number of customers with renewal dates occurring in the last half of our fiscal year has continued to increase. additionally, a significant portion of our quarterly sales typically occur during the last weeks of the quarter and our operating results may be adversely impacted if we do not have sufficient time to bill and collect from our customers in the same quarter or fiscal year. some of our customers may wait until the end of the quarter to negotiate their contracts in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to execute these contracts within the same quarter. moreover, as an increasing number of customers enter into larger, multi-year transactions with us, such transactions tend to have longer sales cycles and can involve customers choosing to pay annually, which may impact our quarterly financial results. if, among other considerations, our future financial performance falls below the expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented approximately 45.3% of our total revenue for fiscal 2019 , continue to expand. our international operations accounted for approximately 45.3% of total revenue for fiscal 2019 . as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource or supplement general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize offerings for a significant number of international markets, which may adversely affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business globally that may adversely affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; pricing environments; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; laws and policies of the u.s. and other jurisdictions affecting trade (including any trade wars or tariffs), foreign investment, loans, immigration and taxes; economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets that could adversely affect our business in those markets or result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenue associated with them, including any adverse effects that may result from the united kingdom's vote to exit the european union; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners; differing technology standards and customer requirements; lower levels of availability or use of the internet, through which our software is often delivered; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights globally due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance and language, legal, cultural and other differences; different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with our brands; export and import laws and regulations that could prevent us from delivering our offerings into and from certain countries; public health risks and natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; 31 table of contents limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; and changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers that could affect the competitive pricing of our offerings and reduce our market share in some countries. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from our red hat enterprise linux platform. during fiscal 2019 , a substantial portion of our subscription revenue was derived from our red hat enterprise linux offerings. although we are continuing to develop other offerings, we expect that revenue from red hat enterprise linux will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. declines and variability in demand for red hat enterprise linux could occur as a result of: competitive products and pricing; failure to release new or enhanced versions of red hat enterprise linux on a timely basis, or at all; maturity of the market for red hat enterprise linux; technological change that we are unable to address with red hat enterprise linux; or future economic conditions. additionally, as more customers and potential customers virtualize their data centers and move computing projects to cloud environments, demand for operating systems such as red hat enterprise linux may decline. moreover, as data centers become more virtualized and move to cloud environments, we may experience a decline in growth if we are unsuccessful in adapting our business model and offerings accordingly. due to the concentration of our revenue from red hat enterprise linux, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected by a decline in demand for red hat enterprise linux. we are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the u.s. dollar may affect our revenue, operating expenses and operating margins, which are reported in u.s. dollars. we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. for example, the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations decreases if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. as we expand international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations may increase. we may use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to economically hedge currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. if these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. for information regarding our hedging activity, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. if our growth rate slows, our stock price could be adversely affected. as the markets for our offerings mature and the scale of our business increases, our rate of revenue, deferred revenue and operating cash flow growth may be lower than the growth rates we experienced in earlier periods. in addition, to the extent that the adoption of our offerings occurs more slowly or is less pervasive than we expect or have experienced in the past, our growth rates may slow or decline, which could adversely affect our stock price. historical period-to-period comparisons of our revenue, deferred revenue and operating cash flow may not be meaningful and are not guarantees of our future performance. 32 table of contents we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income tax and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. changes in tax laws, or in judicial or administrative interpretations of tax laws, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. significant judgment, knowledge and experience are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. our future effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors including our interpretation of the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) enacted into law on december 22, 2017 and the regulations, some of which are pending, and other interpretive guidance relative to the tax act, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, increases in expenses not deductible for tax, including impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions, and changes in available tax credits. we anticipate that the u.s. department of the treasury, the internal revenue service and other standard-setting bodies will continue to issue regulations and interpretive guidance on how the provisions of the tax act will be applied or otherwise administered, and additional regulations or interpretive guidance may be issued in the future that is different from our current interpretation and could be made retroactive. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly and increasingly subject to audits by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any potential litigation related to such audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. the results of an audit or litigation could adversely affect our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions that are not permanently reinvested may result in increased state taxes and/or additional foreign withholding taxes. in addition, the tax act significantly impacts how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. numerous countries are evaluating their existing tax laws due in part to recommendations made by the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd's ) base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) project and in response to the changes in u.s. tax laws. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any legislation based on such proposals may be adopted by the countries in which we do business, future tax reform based on such proposals may increase the amount of taxes we pay and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. moreover, the european commission and some foreign jurisdictions have introduced proposals to impose a separate tax on specified digital service activity. it is unclear how or if such proposals, if enacted, would impact us. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, including those due to customers renewing their subscription agreements prior to the expiration of such agreements or customers renewing with a multi-year agreement instead of an annual agreement, may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, which could adversely affect our operating results. 33 table of contents we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls. we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act ), including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet these requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion, changes in our offerings and changes in accounting principles and guidance, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial condition of our business could be adversely affected, current and potential future stockholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price, and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects, including changes to previously filed financial statements, which could cause our stock to decline. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these principles are subject to interpretation by the sec and various bodies formed to create and interpret appropriate accounting principles and guidance. a change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a significant effect on our reported results, as well as our processes and related controls, and may retroactively affect previously reported results. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and liquidity risks and fluctuations in the market value of our investments and interest rates. these risks may result in an impairment of, or the loss of all or a portion of, the value of our investments, an inability to sell our investments or a decline in interest income. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. our portfolio generally consists of certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate securities, european sovereign and agency securities with a rating of aa or higher, money market funds, and u.s. government and agency securities. although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the risks associated with our investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security or issuer, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value or become impaired, or that our interest income will not decline. a significant part of our short-term and long-term investment portfolio consists of u.s. government and agency securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a default or downgrade of u.s. government or agency debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. future fluctuations and uncertainty in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could record additional impairment charges and lose some or all of the principal value of investments in our portfolio. a total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. some of these investments may have been made to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. our investments in private companies are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose the value of our entire investment in these companies. 34 table of contents epidemics, geo-political events, internet and power outages or natural disasters could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. the occurrence of one or more epidemics, geo-political events (such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks), internet and power outages, telecommunications failures, fire or natural disasters (including those due to the effects of climate change such as increased storm severity, drought, wildfires, and potential flooding due to rising sea levels and storm surges) in a country in which we operate or in which technology industry suppliers or our customers are located, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of our customers to access our offerings, the inability of our associates to reach or have transportation to our facilities or our customers' facilities directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of our customers, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of computer hardware and related components, the disruption or delay in the manufacture and transport of goods globally, the disruption of utility services to our facilities or to suppliers, partners or customers, or disruption in our communications with our customers. risks related to the convertible notes the convertible notes mature on october 1, 2019, and the use of our cash to repay the convertible notes, satisfy our conversion obligations under the convertible notes, or repurchase the convertible notes following a fundamental change will reduce our liquidity and capital resources. in october 2014, we issued $805.0 million of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the convertible notes ). as of february 28, 2019, there was $306.6 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes outstanding. the convertible notes will mature on october 1, 2019, unless previously purchased or converted. on october 1, 2019, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the convertible notes and all accrued and unpaid interest on such notes will become due and payable. holders that elect to convert their convertible notes prior to maturity will receive a cash payment in the amount of $1,000 for each $1,000 in principal amount of convertible notes converted, which may also adversely affect our liquidity, plus shares of our common stock in an amount equal to the excess conversion value above $1,000, if any. in addition, if the merger is completed prior to maturity of the convertible notes, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase the convertible notes for cash in an amount equal to 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of repurchase. any of these cash payments could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. the accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the convertible notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. accounting standards codification subtopic 470-20, debt with conversion and other options ( asc 470-20 ), requires an entity to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's non-convertible debt interest rate. accordingly, the equity component of the convertible notes is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the convertible notes. as a result, we are required to recognize a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in our consolidated income statements in the current and future periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the convertible notes to their principal amount over the term of the convertible notes. we will report lower net income (or greater net losses) in our consolidated financial results because asc 470-20 requires interest to include both the current period's amortization of the original issue discount and the instrument's non-convertible interest rate. this could adversely affect our reported or future consolidated financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the convertible notes. in addition, under certain circumstances, in calculating earnings per share, convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, if any, are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the convertible notes exceeds their principal amount. under the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share is calculated as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, were issued. we cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. if we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, if any, then our diluted consolidated earnings per share would be adversely affected. 35 table of contents the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. in connection with the sale of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with institutions that we refer to as the option counterparties. we also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties pursuant to which we sold warrants for the purchase of our common stock. the convertible note hedge transactions are expected to offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount upon conversion of any convertible notes. the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the relevant warrants, unless, subject to certain conditions, we elect to settle the warrants in cash. the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the convertible notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of the convertible notes or following any repurchase of convertible notes by us in connection with any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). this activity could suppress or inflate the market price of our common stock. we do not make any representation or prediction as to the direction or magnitude of any potential effect that the transactions described above may have on the price of the convertible notes or our common stock. in addition, we do not make any representation that the option counterparties or their respective affiliates will engage in these transactions or that these transactions, once commenced, will not be discontinued without notice. we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. the option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that these option counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. if one or more of the option counterparties to one or more of our convertible note hedge transactions becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in the volatility of the market price of our common stock. in addition, upon a default by one of the option counterparties, we may suffer dilution with respect to our common stock as well as adverse financial consequences. we can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the option counterparties. risks related to ownership of our common stock our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new offerings by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions such as the merger, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, news reports relating to trends in our markets, the commencement or termination of any share repurchase program, general economic conditions and other risks listed herein. the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. 36 table of contents we may issue additional shares of our common stock in certain limited circumstances and thereby adversely affect the market price of our common stock. pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, from october 28, 2018 until the effective time, we generally may not issue, deliver, sell, pledge or otherwise encumber any shares of our common stock, other voting equity interests or certain equity equivalents, or securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, or any options, warrants, calls or rights to acquire, any such stock interest or equity equivalent other than the issuance of shares upon the exercise of options, settlement of other equity awards, exercise of the rights under the employee stock purchase plan, and in relation to notices of conversion regarding the convertible notes and pursuant to warrant transactions. a substantial number of shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance under our equity compensation plans, including for issuance upon the exercise of stock options and the vesting of performance share units, restricted stock, restricted stock units and deferred stock units. a substantial number of shares of our common stock are also reserved in relation to the convertible notes and the warrant transactions and for our employee stock purchase plan. we may not be able to predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. the issuance of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we do not currently expect to pay dividends on our common stock. we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. we currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. under the terms of the merger agreement, from october 28, 2018 until the effective time, we may not declare, set aside or pay any dividends on, or make any other distributions in respect of, any of our capital stock or other equity or voting interests without ibm's prior written consent. in addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock may be prohibited or limited by the terms of any future debt financing arrangement. conversion of the convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their convertible notes, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock. the conversion of the convertible notes into shares of our common stock, to the extent that we choose not to deliver all cash for the conversion value, will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants due to this dilution or may facilitate trading strategies involving the convertible notes and our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, delaware law and the convertible notes may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. these provisions include: our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting; such provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock; the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware law anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. additionally, certain provisions of the convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us or could also have the effect of delaying or reducing the likelihood of a change in control of us even if such acquisition or change of control may be favorable to our stockholders. 37 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of short- and long-term investments in a variety of available-for-sale fixed- and floating-rate debt securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed-rate and floating-rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating-rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income related to these securities may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or perceived credit risk related to the securities' issuers. a hypothetical one-half percentage point change in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in an approximate $0.4 million change in annual interest income derived from investments in our portfolio as of february 28, 2019 . for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2019 and february 28, 2018 , see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 21 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. investment risk the fair value of our available-for-sale investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage point increase in prevailing interest rates would result in an approximate $4.3 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 28, 2019 . for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2019 and february 28, 2018 , see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 21 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. credit risk investments in debt and equity securities the fair values of our investment portfolio and cash balances are exposed to counterparty credit risk. accordingly, while we periodically review our portfolio in an effort to mitigate counterparty risk, the principal values of our cash balances, money market accounts and investments in available-for-sale securities could suffer a loss of value. accounts receivable as of february 28, 2019 we had one customer whose accounts receivable balance individually represented 10% of total accounts receivable. as of february 28, 2018 , no individual customer accounted for 10% or more of our total accounts receivable. foreign currency risk approximately 45.3% of our revenue for fiscal 2019 was produced by sales outside the u.s. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of net income. the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations decrease if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. we have operations in argentina and our functional currency for these operations was the argentine peso. argentina's economy is now considered hyperinflationary. while we still continue to conduct our operations in argentina in argentine pesos, the functional currency was changed to u.s. dollars effective september 1, 2018 for our financial reporting in accordance with u.s. gaap. the change in functional currency to u.s. dollars is currently not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, operating results or cash flows. 64 table of contents using the average foreign currency exchange rates from fiscal 2018 , our revenue and operating expenses from non-u.s. operations for fiscal 2019 would have been higher than we reported by approximately $19.6 million and $22.9 million , respectively, which would have resulted in income from operations being lower by $3.3 million . convertible notes in october 2014, we issued $805.0 million of 0.25% convertible notes due october 2019. the convertible notes have a fixed annual interest rate of 0.25%, and, therefore, we do not have economic interest-rate exposure on the convertible notes. however, the fair value of the convertible notes is exposed to interest rate risk. generally, the fair value of the convertible notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. for further discussion regarding the fair value of the convertible notes, see note 12 convertible notes to our consolidated financial statements. in connection with the sale of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions. the convertible note hedge transactions are expected to offset, to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock does not exceed $101.65 strike price of the warrants, which is subject to adjustments upon the occurrence of certain events, the potential dilution with respect to shares of our common stock upon any conversion of the convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments that we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of the converted notes, as the case may be. the warrant transactions will have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the warrant transactions, exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. however, subject to certain conditions, we may elect to settle all of the warrants in cash. the initial strike price of the warrants is $101.65 per share. the number of shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is 10,965,630 shares, subject to anti-dilution adjustments. the convertible note hedge and warrants are both considered indexed to our common stock and classified as equity; therefore, the convertible note hedge and warrants are not accounted for as derivative instruments. derivative instruments we transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. from time to time we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. all derivative instruments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at their respective fair values. we generally elect not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify our forward contracts for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in our consolidated statements of operations. however, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we repatriated cash from certain of our foreign subsidiaries and entered into a foreign currency forward contract designated as a net investment hedge. as a result of this designation, changes in fair value of the forward contract were recognized as a charge included in other comprehensive income change in foreign currency translation adjustment. for further discussion related to our management of foreign currency risk, see note 10 derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2019 was $75.6 million . the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2019 was a gross asset less than $0.1 million and a gross $0.2 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. the forward contracts generally expire within three months of the period ended february 28, 2019 . the forward contracts will settle in euros, hong kong dollars, japanese yen, and singapore dollars. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2018 was $62.3 million . the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2018 was a gross $0.3 million asset and a gross $0.3 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. 65 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the primary objective of red hat investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments in a variety of highly rated fixed-income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. the following table presents the fair value balances of our cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments that are subject to interest rate risk by year of expected maturity and average interest rates as of february 29, 2004 (in thousands): year ending february 28, 2005 february 28, 2006 february 28, 2007 february 28, 2008 february 28, 2009 total cash equivalents $ 544,889 $ 544,889 average interest rate 1.06 % investments $ 63,712 102,100 166,740 28,498 35,445 $ 396,495 average interest rates 3.75 % 3.08 % 3.22 % 2.79 % 2.78 % red hat did not hold derivative financial instruments as of february 29, 2004, and has never held such investments. foreign currency risk approximately 31.0% of our fiscal 2004 revenues were generated by sales outside the united states. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. additionally, the assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect as of the applicable balance sheet dates, and the revenues and expenses of these operations are translated at average exchange rates during the month the transactions occur. 37quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42risk factors 14 risk factors for a discussion of some of the risks attendant to our foreign operations. business strategy our business strategy includes (i) gaining widespread acceptance and deployment of enterprise linux as a mission-critical operating system platform by the enterprise, (ii) generating increasing subscription revenue on a per installed system basis by renewing subscriptions and providing additional value to our customers and by growing the number of enterprise technologies that comprise our open source architecture, and (iii) generating increased revenues by providing additional systems management, developer and other services as well as from additional market penetration through a broader and deeper set of channel partner relationships, including oems, and our own international expansion, among other means. the key elements of our strategy include: increase the adoption of enterprise linux and red hat enterprise technologies by the enterprise we see the enterprise increasingly view linux, including enterprise linux, as a viable operating system for mission-critical areas of the information technology infrastructure. we intend to promote further acceptance of enterprise linux through a variety of means. these means include promoting and developing additional red hat enterprise technologies that offer additional functionality and applications that build on the enterprise linux operating system as additional components of our open source architecture, bringing new systems management services to market, improving our technology infrastructure to ease the purchasing and renewal process, offering expanded developer services, focusing on new geographic areas, capitalizing on the success of our strategic relationships with companies such as oracle, ibm, symantec, sybase, bea, dell, hp, sun, fujitsu, fujitsu siemens, nec and hitachi and continuing to add strategic relationships with other major information technology companies. we believe the strength of our strategic relationships with these companies is important to the continued expansion of the use of red hat enterprise technologies globally, the technical advancement and widespread distribution of our enterprise solutions, the migration of existing third-party enterprise applications to enterprise linux and the development of new third-party enterprise applications suitable for linux-based operating systems. continue to pursue strategic acquisitions and alliances we intend to continue to pursue a selective acquisition strategy as opportunities arise to complement and expand our systems management offerings, add additional layers of enterprise technologies and products to our enterprise technology operating system offerings and extend our service capabilities. for example, we recently announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire jboss, inc., a delaware corporation ( jboss ). jboss current key offerings are principally in the open source middleware software space. for further discussion, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation subsequent event . we also intend to create and extend our strategic alliances and channel partner relationships where it is beneficial to our business. 8 continue to grow our presence in international markets we have operations in a number of countries in the americas, emea and asia pacific. we are continuing to expand our operations geographically, with over 30 offices worldwide. we offer enterprise linux software and documentation in 15 languages: english, japanese, german, brazilian portuguese, korean, italian, french, simplified chinese, traditional chinese, spanish, devnagari, bangla, punjabi, tamil, and gujarati. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our revenues by geographic area. continue to invest in the development of open source technology we intend to continue to invest significant resources in the development of new open source technology, capitalizing on our substantial experience working with the open source model and community. we expect this continued investment to take the form of expenditures on internal development efforts, as well as continued funding of third-party open source projects and expanding our developer services. products and services red hat software solutions, consisting of red hat enterprise technologies such as enterprise linux, are at the center of our subscription strategy and our open source architecture. our services offerings, principally directed toward our large enterprise customers and the leading hardware providers with whom we have strategic agreements, include technical support and maintenance, training, professional services, embedded services, engineering services and hardware certification. generally, our software products come with a limited duration services subscription. enterprise linux is delivered on an annual and multi-year subscription basis and includes varying levels of support services and access to the basic software update and configuration management functionality of rhn. red hat enterprise linux and red hat desktop technologies enterprise linux is a version of the linux operating system designed expressly for enterprise computing. enterprise linux is built around a common core of open source software that delivers the features required for commercial deployments, including: support for a wide range of isv applications from vendors such as oracle, ibm, symantec, sybase and bea; certification on multiple architectures and leading oem platforms, including dell, hp, ibm, sun, fujitsu, fujitsu siemens, nec and hitachi; comprehensive service offerings, with up to 24x7, one-hour response, available both from red hat and selected isv/oem partners and delivery of new technology throughout the product lifecycle; performance and scalability, with leading audited industry benchmarks; stability with 12-18 month version upgrade cycles and seven-year support lifecycle; and a suite of products that enables interoperation of systems from the technical/developer workstation to the data center. red hat operating system platforms are available in four versions: enterprise linux as enterprise linux as is our top-of-the-line enterprise linux product designed for use in mission-critical areas of the information technology infrastructure. supporting the largest commodity-architecture servers and available with the highest levels of support, enterprise linux as is designed for large departmental, middle tier of the information technology infrastructure and data center server deployments. 9 enterprise linux es enterprise linux es is designed for systems ranging from the edge-of-network to medium-scale departmental deployments. enterprise linux ws enterprise linux ws is designed for power users and a wide range of high-performance technical client applications such as cluster computing, software development and engineering design. red hat desktop red hat desktop is designed for general corporate users who need a variety of software functionality from email to web applications. it is intended for volume deployments that require a secure and centralized management infrastructure for client systems. additional red hat enterprise technologies red hat enterprise technologies include software applications for managing web content, software development, high availability clusters of linux systems and storage, authentication of users as well as directory sever services. these applications broaden customer choice and are key components of our open source architecture vision for the enterprise. red hat application server provides a range of standards-based open source technologies to enable java-based web application development and deployment. in addition, the red hat developer suite provides an integrated development environment for application developers. red hat cluster suite features clustering and uses application fail-over technology, which is designed to make applications with high availability. red hat global file system is an enterprise-strength clustered file system for linux, designed for commercial and technical computing applications requiring access to fully shared data. red hat certificate system is a scalable authentication system for appropriately limiting access to mission critical resources and data. red hat directory server centralizes application settings, user profiles, group data, policies and access control information into an operating system-independent, network-based registry. red hat systems management solutions: rhn rhn provides systems management and software delivery services for red hat enterprise technologies. with a focus on open standards and scalability, rhn helps organizations increase productivity, lower costs and enhance security by provisioning, monitoring and updating systems. rhn services are also available in both hosted and satellite architectures, to provide organizations with the appropriate level of flexibility, security and scalability based on their size and needs. rhn consists of four modules: update, management, provisioning and monitoring. with the exception of update, which is provided with a subscription to enterprise linux, customers purchase entitlements to these services on an annual per-system subscription basis. update module included in an enterprise linux subscription, the update module is the entry-level offering for rhn, providing functionality enhancements and upgrades to individual systems. update module includes functionality such as a graphical user interface, priority notification, errata information, red hat package manager ( rpm ) dependency checking and auto update. update module also gives customers access to electronic delivery of software related to their red hat subscriptions. management module the management module allows customers to manage their entire red hat enterprise technologies infrastructure. designed to enable scalable enterprise administration, the management module features systems grouping, role-based administration and scheduled actions. provisioning module the provisioning module includes features such as operating system provisioning (from new, unformatted systems or previously deployed systems), configuration management, multi-state rollback, scheduled remote actions, auto discovery, configuration tools and rpm-based application provisioning. 10 monitoring module the monitoring module adds performance-tracking capabilities to rhn. users can configure monitoring checks based on 60 pre-built probes, or they can create their own. probes suites can be used to set up groups of probes on multiple systems. email or pager warnings send alerts when defined performance thresholds are crossed. rhn has two architectures designed to satisfy customers requirements: hosted and satellite. hosted with the hosted architecture, the customer individual systems connect to rhn via the internet to receive information, functionality enhancements and upgrades from our central rhn servers. this architecture is the rhn service included with a subscription to enterprise linux. to reduce internet bandwidth consumption, rhn proxy servers can be added to a hosted deployment to cache content locally. satellite the satellite architecture stores all rhn functionality, such as system profiles, reporting data, and application server, locally on a customer network. the satellite server connects with rhn over the internet to download functionality enhancements. the architecture allows customers greater control over their management solution, as they may use satellite to distribute custom or third-party content to their enterprise linux systems. customers may also disconnect rhn technology from the internet, if desired, to improve security. additional rhn proxy servers can also be added to a satellite deployment to improve performance and package downloads for remote locations. this suite of products that we expect will grow comprises our developing open source architecture; it provides new opportunities for our customers to deploy red hat enterprise technologies that integrate with their enterprise linux operating system and make it even more productive. global client services red hat global client service offerings are designed to help enterprise customers derive additional value from red hat enterprise technologies and open source technology. global learning services offers an array of hands-on training courses worldwide to meet the diverse training needs of customers. certifications include red hat certified technician, red hat certified engineer and the red hat certified architect. courses span topics such as system administration, advanced enterprise deployment, development and security. we offer open enrollment at training centers in more than 130 locations worldwide, and as an alternative, the majority of the curriculum can be delivered via e-learning or by customized on-site instruction. global professional services offers consulting services for open source it deployments, from assessment and implementation to upgrade planning. global support services ( gss ) is red hat worldwide, mission-critical technical support group. gss provides production support as part of every red hat enterprise technology subscription as well as an online knowledgebase of technical information. gss provides additional premium services for enterprise customers, such as 24 hour per day, 7 day per week service levels and technical account management. competition in the operating systems market, we compete with a number of large and well-established companies that have significantly greater financial resources, larger development staffs and more extensive marketing and distribution capabilities. these competitors include microsoft corporation ( microsoft ), ibm, sun and novell, inc. ( novell ), all of which offer hardware-independent, multi-user operating systems for intel platforms. moreover, hp, unisys corporation, ibm and sun, each offer the unix operating system. many of these competitors bundle competitive operating systems such as unix with their own hardware offerings, thereby making it more difficult for us to penetrate their customer bases. 11 within the specific category of linux operating systems, our chief competitor is novell, with its suse brand of linux. other, less well capitalized linux brands include mandriva, debian, ubuntu and other regionally-specific distributions. with our professional services offerings, we additionally face competition in the market for services related to the deployment of our enterprise technologies including enterprise linux and rhn. our competitors in the market include ibm and hp as well as other technology infrastructure consulting companies. in the systems management services market, we compete with a number of large companies that have significantly greater financial resources, larger development staffs and more extensive marketing and distribution capabilities. these competitors include ibm, hp, computer associates international, inc., novell, microsoft and bmc software, inc., all of which offer heterogeneous operating system support including support for operating systems such as linux, solaris, aix, hp-ux and windows. many of these competitors have legacy client/server offerings that require relatively long implementation cycles and are difficult to displace in enterprise customers due to switching costs. the open source software market is not characterized by the traditional barriers to entry that are found in the proprietary software model due to the nature of open source technology. for example, anyone can copy, modify and redistribute enterprise linux and most of our other open source products. however, they are not permitted to refer to these products as red hat products unless they have a relationship with us. moreover, as it relates to our enterprise technologies and rhn offerings, our customers agree not to utilize the subscription services that they receive from us on any installed system for which they have not purchased a subscription. in addition, the only means by which customers can receive a certified version of enterprise linux and receive certified functionality enhancements and upgrades to a copy of enterprise linux is to purchase and maintain a current subscription directly from us, or our certified partners with which we have agreements. we believe that the major factors affecting the competitive landscape for our products include: the name and reputation of vendor; the product price, performance, reliability and functionality; the alliances of the vendor with major industry hardware and/or software providers; the quality of our support and consulting services; the financial and value relationship of subscription services; the number of global 2000 reference accounts; the availability of third-party enterprise infrastructure applications that run on the operating system; the breadth of hardware compatibility; the management framework for administering the operating system and related software technologies; the distribution strength and number of distribution partners of the vendor; and the strength of the vendor relationships in the open source community. although we believe that overall we generally compete on par or favorably with many of our non-linux competitors in a number of respects, including product performance, price and breadth of hardware compatibility, we believe that a number of our key competitors currently have superior distribution capabilities. in addition, there are significantly more enterprise infrastructure applications available for competing operating systems, such as windows nt, windows server 2003, windows xp and unix, than there are for enterprise linux. an integral part of our strategy has been to help address these shortcomings by, among other methods, strengthening our existing strategic relationships and entering into new ones to expand our distribution capabilities and by attracting more attention to the open source movement, which in turn we believe should create additional opportunities and incentives for software developers to write more applications for enterprise linux. 12 software engineering and development we have invested, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in product and technology development. we have expended $40.9 million, $32.5 million and $26.5 million, in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, in research and development costs. we focus and modify our product development efforts based on the needs of users and changes in the marketplace. we are currently focusing our development efforts on improving or adding the functionality to enterprise linux and rhn that is needed by the global 2000 and the leading third-party applications upon which the global 2000 are dependent. our software engineers collaborate with open source software development teams working across the internet and through our fedora project. this involvement enables us to remain abreast of, and lead, certain technical advances, plans for development of new features and timing of releases, as well as other information related to the development of the linux kernel and other open source projects. our software engineers have contributed to the development and maintenance of some of the most important components of the enterprise linux operating system, including the installation program and the package management program, rpm. the installation program provides users with a single method to install the hundreds of separate software programs that are included with enterprise linux so that, from the user perspective, the hundreds of programs appear as one. this simplified process sharply reduces the time and effort required to install as compared to the alternative of gathering the hundreds of programs one by one via the internet. the installation program provides default settings for the user depending upon whether the user wishes to use enterprise linux as a server operating system or as a workstation operating system. the installation also provides advanced users with the ability to customize the programs that are installed, allowing for significant flexibility and greater control over the operating system. the installation also automatically detects the type of hardware that comprises the user computer, in order to ensure that all programs necessary for enterprise linux to work on the hardware are properly installed. our software development engineers perform extensive testing of enterprise linux, rhn and other red hat enterprise technologies. we use various industry methods of quality assurance testing to help ensure that our enterprise technologies are solidly engineered and ready for use by our customers when shipped. we also work closely with leading hardware and software vendors to help ensure their applications will operate effectively on the enterprise linux platform. in addition, we continue to invest substantial resources in the development/commercialization of open source technologies that provide added value in addition to the operating system, such as red hat directory server and red hat global file system. intellectual property enterprise linux and our other open source products have been developed and made available for licensing under the gnu general public license and other open source licenses. these licenses permit anyone to copy, modify and distribute the software. some, such as the gnu general public license, require that any resulting or derivative work that is distributed to others be licensed under the same terms. therefore, although we retain the copyrights to the code that we develop ourselves, due to the nature of our open source software products and the licenses under which we develop and distribute them, our most valuable intellectual property is our collection of trademarks and the recognition of our brand. we rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights and patents to protect our intellectual property. we also generally enter into confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements with our employees and consultants, and generally control access to and distribution of our confidential documentation and other proprietary information. we pursue registration of some of our trademarks in the united states and in other countries. we have registered the trademark red hat and the red hat shadowman logo in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia. 13 despite our efforts to protect our trademark rights, unauthorized third parties have in the past attempted and in the future may attempt to misappropriate our trademark rights. we cannot be certain that we will succeed in preventing the continued misappropriation of our tradename and trademarks in these circumstances or that we will be able to prevent this type of unauthorized use in the future. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect, or deter misappropriation of our trademark rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in addition, policing unauthorized use of our trademark rights is difficult, expensive and time consuming. however, we maintain an active enforcement program. the loss of any material trademark or tradename could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. red hat has also undertaken patent protection of some of the innovative ideas of our software developers. not all of these inventions are applicable to our current technologies. some provide protection of potential new technologies. as part of red hat commitment to the open source community, we provide our patent promise to permit development and distribution of open source applications that read on our patents. consequently, it is unlikely that our patents will, of themselves, provide us substantial revenue. rather, they may provide a measure of deterrence against the potential patent infringement claims of third parties and may help ensure that such new technologies and innovations remain open. we have also joined with other industry leaders to form the open invention network llc, which acquires patents with the goal of promoting innovation in open source for the linux platform. third parties have in the past asserted, and may in the future assert, infringement claims against us which may result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to third-party intellectual property rights. there can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of certain intellectual property risks attendant to our business. employees as of february 28, 2006, red hat had more than 1100 employees. from time to time we also employ independent contractors to support our professional services, product development, sales, marketing and business development organizations. our employees are not represented by any labor union and are not organized under a collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. we believe our relations with our employees are generally good. company information our website is located at www.redhat.com . this annual report on form 10-k, our quarterly reports on form 10-q, our current reports on form 8-k, and all amendments to these reports, as well as proxy statements and other information we file with or furnish to the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) are accessible free of charge on our website. we make these documents available as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. except as otherwise stated in these documents, the information contained on our website or available by hyperlink from our website is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other documents we file with or furnish to the sec. item 1a. risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this annual report on form 10-k. moreover, certain statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking 14 statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that is not strictly an historical statement (for example, statements regarding current or future financial performance, management plans and objectives for future operations, product plans and performance, management expectations regarding market risk and market penetration, management assessment of market factors or strategies, objectives and plans of red hat and its partners). words such as anticipates, believes, expects, estimates, intends, plans, projects, and similar expressions, may also identify such forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned that these forward looking statements are not guarantees of red hat future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause red hat actual results to differ materially from those found in the forward looking statements and from historical trends. these risks and uncertainties include the risks and cautionary statements detailed below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k as well as in red hat other filings with the securities and exchange commission (sec), copies of which may be accessed through the sec web site at http://www.sec.gov. readers are urged to carefully review these risks and cautionary statements. the forward-looking statements included in this annual report represent our views as of the date of this annual report. we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this annual report. risks related to business uncertainty if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading hardware manufacturers, distributors, software vendors and enterprise solutions providers such as dell, hewlett-packard, ibm, sun, oracle, fujitsu and others. these relationships allow us to offer our products and services to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able to through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms. in addition, our existing strategic relationships do not, and any future strategic relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. as a result, many of the companies with which we have strategic alliances pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our products and services, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing, and technical support. we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete, integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past and, in the future, may enter into business combinations and acquisitions. we have limited experience in making acquisitions, and acquisitions present significant challenges and risks, including: the difficulty of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the acquired companies; the difficulty of gathering full information regarding the target business prior to the acquisition; the maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel; the inability to maintain a relationship with customers of the acquired business; 15 challenges in maintaining good and effective relations with existing business partners or of those of the acquired business, including as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape effected by the acquisition; the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services and of maintaining quality standards consistent with the red hat brand; the potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition; expenses related to the acquisition; potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses; and unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration into existing technology. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we have or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing such acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price. we could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution, or we may incur substantial debt. any acquisition may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, which may adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. for example, our total revenues increased from approximately $196.5 million for the year ended february 28, 2005 to approximately $278.3 million for the year ended february 28, 2006. moreover, the total number of our employees increased significantly over that year. in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our product and service offerings, and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully offer products and services and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources and oversight from our senior management. as we grow, we must also continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. as we grow and expand globally, controls and oversight functions will become more complex and distributed and may in part be outsourced. we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise and manage sufficient personnel or develop management, or effectively manage and develop our controls and oversight functions and information systems to adequately manage our expansion effectively. if we are unable to adequately manage our growth and expansion, our operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we rely, to a significant degree, on an indirect sales channel for distribution of our products and services, and disruption of any part of this channel could adversely affect the sales of our products. we use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including indirect channel partners, such as third party oems, resellers and distributors. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers), with whom we have no direct relationship. we rely, to a significant degree, on our channel partners to, among other activities, select, screen and maintain relationships with our distribution network and for the distribution of our products and services in a manner that is consistent with red hat quality standards. our indirect distribution channel could be affected by disruptions in the relationships of and with our channel partners and their networks, including their customers or suppliers. we cannot guarantee that our channel partners will market our products effectively. disruptions in our distribution channel or poor marketing support by channel partners could lead to decreased sales or slower than expected growth. 16 we may not be able to continue to attract capable management personnel our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent the technology sector performs well and/or if companies with more generous compensation packages or greater perceived growth opportunities compete for the same personnel. in addition, historically we have used stock options as a key component of our compensation packages. changes in the accounting for equity compensation, including stock options, could adversely affect our earnings or force us to use more cash compensation to attract and retain capable personnel. volatility in the stock market may reduce the value of our equity awards to the recipient. such events, or if we are unable to secure shareholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for equity compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. we depend on our key personnel that we employ. our future success depends on the continued services of a number of key officers and employees. the loss of the technical knowledge and industry expertise of any of these individuals could seriously impede our success. moreover, the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish the red hat brand and adversely affect our business or stock price. our ceo and other key employees have become, or will soon become vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the options have significantly appreciated in value. if we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our existing ceo and key employees and attracting new key personnel, our business, its financial performance and our stock price may decline. our subscription-based contract model may encounter customer resistance. the subscription agreement used for many of our products, including enterprise linux, requires customers to agree to a subscription for our services for each installed system on which they deploy our subscription based products. at the same time, the subscription agreement places no restriction on the customer right to redistribute the products. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, we may still encounter customer resistance to this distribution model. to the extent we are unsuccessful in promoting or defending this distribution model, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. if our current and future customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, our revenue and operating results may be adversely impacted. our customers may not renew their subscriptions for our service after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact, some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower priced edition of our service or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our service and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our revenue and operating results may be adversely impacted. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new products or adequately enhance our existing products. we rely to a significant degree on several largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our products. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed 17 by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our products or we would need to develop and enhance our products with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our product release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our products could become less competitive. if third-party enterprise software application providers do not continue to make their applications compatible with our linux-based operating system offerings, our software will cease to be competitive. our products will not be competitive unless enterprise software applications are compatible with our linux-based operating system offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our linux-based operating systems by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to the linux platform, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our products will not be competitive and our sales growth will be adversely affected. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our products and damage our reputation. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. if we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our products but competing technology becomes more widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our products may be reduced and that could harm our reputation, diminish the red hat brand and result in decreased revenue. because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry in the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for new competitors with greater resources than we have to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone can modify the existing software or develop new software that competes with existing open source software. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for new competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions, potentially reducing the demand for our solutions. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry as well as maintaining a strong brand. investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services and technology infrastructure. if we are unable to ensure that our users and customers have a high quality experience with our products and services, then they may become dissatisfied and move to competitors products and services. in 18 addition, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose customers. our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to improve the performance and reliability of our services. our failure to adapt to such changes would harm our business. in addition, the widespread adoption of other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and product road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from other business operations; insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. security and privacy breaches may expose us to liability and cause us to lose clients. our security and testing measures may not prevent security breaches that could harm our business. for example, a significant number of our users provide us with credit card and other confidential information and authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for our products and services. typically, we rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to enhance transmission security of confidential information. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate facility security or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer data. any compromise of our security could harm our reputation or financial condition and, therefore, our business. in addition, a party who is able to circumvent our security measures could, among other effects, misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations or expose customers to computer viruses or other disruptions. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. we are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure to, among other functions, sell our products and services, support our partners and to fulfill orders. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by internal employees and contractors as well as third parties. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. any interruption in the availability of our websites would create a large volume of user questions and complaints that would need to be addressed by our customer support personnel rather than by self-help over our website. if our customer support personnel cannot meet this demand, customer satisfaction levels may fall, which in turn could cause additional claims or reduced revenues. risks related to legal uncertainty if our products are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our products, replace components of our products or enter into license agreements with third parties. we have committed to our subscription customers that if any portion of our enterprise products are found to infringe any third party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the 19 customer to continue to use the product consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the product so that it is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy this commitment, satisfying the commitment could be costly and time consuming and could materially and adversely affect our financial results. in addition, our insurance policies may not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. moreover, from time to time, we indemnify customers against certain claims that our products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. in the event that claims for indemnification are brought for intellectual property infringement, we could incur significant expense reimbursing customers for their legal costs and, in the event those claims are successful, for damages. we are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights because our products are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties, and an adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property could materially harm our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights including patent, copyright and trade secrets because our products are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. moreover, because the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined, patent applications in the united states are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software parents that are issued each year is significant and growing, we may be unable to assess the relevance of patents to our products, or take appropriate responsive action, in a timely or economic manner. we expect that our products could increasingly be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. defending patent infringement, copyright infringement and/or trade secret claims, even claims without significant merit, can be expensive. an adverse legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could harm our business and may do so materially. in addition, sco group, inc. ( sco ) has publicly alleged that certain linux kernels contain unauthorized unix code or derivative works. as noted below, sco has also filed suit against ibm based on allegations including that certain linux kernels wrongfully include sco intellectual property. uncertainty concerning sco allegations, regardless of their merit, could adversely affect sales of our products. if sco were to prevail in this or other actions related to their claims regarding linux, our business could be materially and adversely affected. we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our products are developed and licensed are not enforceable. a number of our offerings, including rhel, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. the gnu general public license is a subject of litigation in the case of the sco group, inc. v. international business machines corp., pending in the united states district court for the district of utah. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable in that litigation or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that open source components of our product offerings, may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, would have the effect of preventing us from selling or developing all or a portion of our products. our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products and expose us to litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and will continue to be found in our products after commencement of commercial shipments. this risk is exacerbated by the fact that much of the code in our products is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are 20 discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital to eliminate them and may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner or at all. errors and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince commercial users of the benefits of linux-based operating systems and other open source software products. in addition, failures in our products could cause system or other failures for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our license agreements with our customers often contain provisions which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. in addition, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to this type of claim. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time consuming to defend and could materially harm our business. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our most valuable intellectual property is our collection of trademarks. the protective steps we have taken in the past have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect, and deter misappropriation of, our trademark rights. although we do not believe that we have suffered material harm from misappropriation to date, we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in the americas, europe, asia and australia and have other trademark applications pending in each of those regions. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products and services. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy the red hat brand and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. in connection with our restatement of historical financial statements, class action lawsuits have been filed against us and additional lawsuits may be filed. following our announcement in july 2004 of our intention to restate certain historical financial statements, 14 class action lawsuits were commenced against us and certain of our current and former directors and officers, by or on behalf of persons claiming to be our stockholders and persons claiming to have purchased or otherwise acquired our securities at specified dates beginning as early as june 19, 2001 and continuing through july 13, 2004. the 14 class action lawsuits have since been consolidated into a single lawsuit. additional lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. regardless of the outcome, it is likely that we will incur substantial defense costs and these matters may cause a diversion of our management time and attention. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. we are unable at this time to assess the validity of the claims or estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred as a result of the lawsuits. we have not yet established any financial reserves relating to any of these lawsuits. we may suffer material adverse consequences if we are deemed to be an investment company and may incur significant costs to avoid investment company status. we may be deemed to be an investment company under the investment company act of 1940 (the 1940 act ), if we own investment securities with a value of exceeding 40% of our total assets, unless a particular exclusion or safe harbor provision applies. a large portion of our assets has been invested in investment grade interest-bearing securities, many of which constitute investment securities under the 1940 act. as of february 28, 2006, our investment securities exceeded 40% of our total assets. we believe that we are otherwise excluded from the definition of investment company and the registration requirements of the 1940 act, but, absent an exemptive order from the sec, this result cannot be assured. investment companies are subject to registration under the 1940 act and compliance with a variety of restrictions and requirements imposed under the 21 1940 act. if we were to be deemed an investment company, we would become subject to these restrictions and requirements of the 1940 act and the consequences of having been an investment company without registering there under, could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, we may incur significant costs to avoid or eliminate investment company status if an exclusion from the 1940 act were to be considered unavailable to use at a time when the value of our investments that constitute investment securities exceeds 40% of our total assets. if we were required to change the allocation of our assets to reduce our ownership of securities that constitute investment securities, and acquire non-investment security assets, this could result in transaction costs, the realization of losses on investment securities sold, and or a reduction in the rate of return on our liquid assets. our business is subject to a variety of us and international laws regarding data protection. our business is subject to federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. we post, on our website, our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines and penalties, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which in turn could have a material effect on our business. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. risks related to financial uncertainty you should not rely on our quarterly results of operations as an indication of our future results. due to the unpredictability of the technology spending environment, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. if, among other considerations, our future operating results fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. further, the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. in addition, several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or 22 made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may lack the financial and operational resources needed to increase our market share and compete effectively. in the market for operating systems and applications, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial resources and name recognition than we have. competitors, which offer hardware-independent multi-user operating systems for intel platforms and/or linux and unix-based operating systems, include microsoft, novell, ibm, sun and hp. we may lack the financial and operational resources needed to compete successfully with our current competitors as well as potential new competitors. moreover, we compete in certain areas with our strategic partners and potential strategic partners, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for our products and services, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market opportunity. we may have to lower the prices of our products and services to stay competitive, which could affect our margins and financial condition. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, we may lose market share. industry consolidation may also effect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, which may have an adverse effect on our business. in the market for services offerings, we face significant competition from larger companies, including those that currently provide service and training related to the linux operating system as well as other operating systems, particularly unix-based operating systems, due to the fact that linux-and unix-based operating systems share many common features. these larger companies, including ibm, novell and hp, may be able to leverage their existing service organizations and provide higher levels of consulting and training on a more cost-effective basis than we can. we may not be able to compete successfully with our current or potential competitors. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented 35.5% of our total revenue for the year ended february 28, 2006, continue to expand. our international operations accounted for 35.5% of total revenue for the year ended february 28, 2006. as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally-dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional informational technology infrastructure and successfully localize software products for a significant number of international markets, which may negatively affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business overseas that may negatively affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners outside of the united states; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights overseas, due among other reasons, to the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty maintaining quality standards in local activities consistent with the red hat brand; export controls and times of crisis could prevent us from shipping our products into and out of certain markets; 23 changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers could affect the competitive pricing of our products and service and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets could result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets. moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies and procedures, could have a material adverse effect on our business. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are typically 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect these reduced revenues. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls or fail on an on-going basis to properly address section 404 of sarbanes-oxley. we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sox ), including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. these requirements first became applicable to us on february 28, 2005. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet the section 404 requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our products and services, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. 24 if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of section 404 of sox, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial position of our business could be harmed; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments in a variety of fixed-income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities which have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. a hypothetical one percentage point change in interest rates will result in an $10.0 million change in interest income on an annual basis. our convertible debentures are at fixed rates and therefore interest expense is not impacted by a change in rates. the fair market value of the debentures is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. generally the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt increases as interest rates fall and decreases as interest rates rise. generally, the fair market value of debt with conversion features permitting conversion into stock of the issuer, like the debentures, also increases as the market price of the underlying stock increases and decreases as the market price falls, assuming constant market interest rates. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. the fair value of the debentures was approximately $668.0 million and $514.0 million based on quoted market prices as of february 28, 2006 and february 28, 2005, respectively. investment risk the fair market value of our investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage point increase in prevailing interest rates would result in an approximate $8.1 and $13.1 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 28, 2006 and february 28, 2005, respectively. 45 derivative instruments we did not hold derivative financial instruments as of february 28, 2006. foreign currency risk approximately 35.5% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2006, were produced by sales outside the united states. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenues, operating expenses and net income for our non-u.s. segments. similarly, our revenues, operating expenses and net income will decrease for our non-u.s. operations if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. using the average foreign currency exchange rates from fiscal 2005, our revenues from non-u.s. operations for the year ended february 28, 2006 would have been higher than we reported using the exchange rates for fiscal 2006, by approximately $1.7 million. additionally, the assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect as of the applicable balance sheet dates, while related revenue and expense accounts of these operations are translated at average exchange rates during the month in which related transactions occur. translation gains and losses are included as an adjustment to stockholders equity and included in other comprehensive income. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. 46risk factors 17 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. moreover, certain statements contained in this report and the documents incorporated by reference in this report, including in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that is not strictly a historical statement (for example, statements regarding current or future financial performance, management plans and objectives for future operations, product plans and performance, management expectations regarding market risk and market penetration, management assessment of market factors or strategies, objectives and plans of red hat and its partners). words such as anticipates, believes, expects, estimates, intends, plans, projects, and similar expressions, may also identify such forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of red hat future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause red hat actual results to differ materially from those found in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. these risks and uncertainties include the risks and cautionary statements detailed below and elsewhere in this report as well as in red hat other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ), copies of which may be accessed through the sec web site at http://www.sec.gov. readers are urged to carefully review these risks and cautionary statements. the forward-looking statements included in this report represent our views as of the date of this report. we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this report. risks related to business uncertainty if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading hardware manufacturers, distributors, software vendors and enterprise solutions providers such as sap, dell, hp, ibm, sun, fujitsu, nec and others. these relationships allow us to offer our products and services to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able to through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms. in addition, our existing strategic relationships do not, and any future strategic relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. as a result, many of the companies, with which we have strategic alliances pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our products and services, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. 17 table of contents we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions, and we may continue to do so in the future. we have limited experience in making acquisitions, and acquisitions present significant challenges and risks, including: the difficulty of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the acquired companies; the difficulty of gathering full information regarding the target business prior to the acquisition; the maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel; the inability to maintain a relationship with customers of the acquired business; challenges in maintaining good and effective relations with existing business partners or of those of the acquired business, including as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape effected by the acquisition; the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services and of maintaining quality standards consistent with our brand; the potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition; expenses related to the acquisition; potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses; and unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration into existing technology. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we have or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing such acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price. we could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution, or we may incur substantial debt. any acquisition may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, which may adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. for example, our total revenues increased from approximately $278.3 million for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2006 to approximately $400.6 million for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2007. moreover, the total number of our employees increased from over 1,100 as of february 28, 2006 to over 1,800 as of february 28, 2007 and is expected to generally increase in the foreseeable future. in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our product and service offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully offer products and services and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources and oversight from our senior management. as we grow, we must also continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. as we grow and expand globally, controls and oversight functions will become more complex and distributed and may in part be outsourced. we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise and 18 table of contents manage sufficient personnel or develop management, or effectively manage and develop our controls and oversight functions and information systems to adequately manage our expansion effectively. if we are unable to adequately manage our growth and expansion, our operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we rely, to a significant degree, on an indirect sales channel for distribution of our products and services, and disruption of any part of this channel could adversely affect the sales of our products. we use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including indirect channel partners, such as third party oems, resellers and distributors. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers), with whom we have no direct relationship. we rely, to a significant degree, on our channel partners to, among other activities, select, screen and maintain relationships with our distribution network and for the distribution of our products and services in a manner that is consistent with red hat quality standards. our indirect distribution channel could be affected by disruptions in the relationships of and with our channel partners and their networks, including their customers or suppliers. as a result, we may be required to devote greater support and professional services resources to distribute our products and support our customers, which could drive up costs and may not be as effective. we cannot guarantee that our channel partners will market our products effectively. disruptions in our distribution channel or poor marketing support by channel partners could lead to decreased sales or slower than expected growth or increased distribution and support costs. we rely on software licensed from other parties, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay software shipments. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties. our business would be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. in either case, we would be required to either redesign our products to function with software available from other parties or develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in our product shipments and the release of new product offerings. furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future products. if we fail to maintain or renegotiate any of these software licenses, we could face significant delays and diversion of resources in attempting to license and integrate a functional equivalent of the software. we may not be able to continue to attract capable management personnel our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent the technology sector performs well and/or if companies with more generous compensation packages or greater perceived growth opportunities compete for the same personnel. in addition, historically we have used stock options as a key component of our compensation packages. changes in the accounting for equity compensation, including stock options, could adversely affect our earnings or force us to use more cash compensation to attract and retain capable personnel. volatility in the stock market may reduce the value of our equity awards to the recipient. such events, or if we are unable to secure shareholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for equity compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. we depend on our key personnel that we employ. our future success depends on the continued services of a number of key officers and employees. the loss of the technical knowledge and industry expertise of any of these individuals could seriously impede our success. moreover, the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish the red hat brand and adversely affect our business or stock price. 19 table of contents our ceo and other key employees have become, or will soon become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the options have significantly appreciated in value. if we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our existing ceo and key employees and attracting new key personnel, our business, its financial performance and our stock price may decline. our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and teamwork. as our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees. our subscription-based contract model may encounter customer resistance or we may experience a decline in the demand for our products the subscription agreement used for many of our products, including red hat enterprise linux, requires customers to agree to a subscription for our services for each installed system on which they deploy our subscription based products. at the same time, the subscription agreement places no restriction on the customer right to redistribute the products. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, we may still encounter customer resistance to this distribution model. to the extent we are unsuccessful in promoting or defending this distribution model, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. if our current and future customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, our revenue and operating results may be adversely impacted. our customers may not renew their subscriptions for our service after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact, some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower priced edition of our services or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our revenue and operating results may be adversely impacted. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new products, adequately enhance our existing products or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our products. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our 20 table of contents products or we would need to develop and enhance our products with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our product release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our products could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or shipping new or enhanced products could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those products and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make offerings compatible with our offerings, our software will cease to be competitive. our products will not be competitive unless third-party enterprise hardware and software offerings are compatible with our offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to the linux platform, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various hardware platforms by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our products will not be competitive and our sales growth will be adversely affected. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our products and damage our reputation. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. if we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our products but competing technology becomes more widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our products may be reduced and that could harm our reputation, diminish the red hat brand and result in decreased revenue. because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry in the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for new competitors with greater resources than we have to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone can modify the existing software or develop new software that competes with existing open source software. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for new competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions, potentially reducing the demand for our solutions. for example, in october 2006 oracle announced plans to sell support for its version of the linux operating system. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry as well as maintaining a strong brand. investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services and technology 21 table of contents infrastructure. if we are unable to ensure that our users and customers have a high quality experience with our products and services, then they may become dissatisfied and move to competitors products and services. in addition, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose customers. we believe that the brand identity that we have developed has contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing the red hat brand is important to expanding our customer base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brand, we may be required to make substantial investments that may or may not be successful. if we fail to promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. maintaining our brand will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high quality products and services. our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to improve the performance and reliability of our services. our failure to adapt to such changes would harm our business. in addition, the widespread adoption of other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and product road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. security and privacy breaches may expose us to liability and cause us to lose clients. our security and testing measures may not prevent security breaches that could harm our business. for example, a significant number of our users provide us with credit card and other confidential information and authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for our products and services. typically, we rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to enhance transmission security of confidential information. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate facility security or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer data. any compromise of our security could harm our reputation or financial condition and, therefore, our business. in addition, a party who is able to circumvent our security measures or exploit inadequacies in our security measures, could, among other effects, misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations or expose customers to computer viruses or other disruptions. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. we are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to sell our products and services, support our partners, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by internal employees and contractors as well as third parties. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of system failures. 22 table of contents any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers and partners would create a large volume of user questions and complaints that would need to be addressed by our support personnel rather than by self-help. if our support personnel cannot meet this demand, customer and partner satisfaction levels may fall, which in turn could cause additional claims or reduced revenues. risks related to legal uncertainty if our products are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our products, replace components of our products, enter into license agreements with third parties and provide infringement indemnification. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our enterprise products are found to infringe any third party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the product consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the product so that it is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and indemnify them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying the commitments could be costly and time consuming and could materially and adversely affect our financial position and results. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. we are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights because our products are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties, and an adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property could materially harm our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patent, copyright and trade secrets because our products are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. moreover, because the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined, patent applications in the united states are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing, we may be unable to assess the relevance of patents to our products, or take appropriate responsive action, in a timely or economic manner. we expect that our products could increasingly be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. defending patent infringement, copyright infringement and/or trade secret claims, even claims without significant merit, can be expensive. the sco group, inc. ( sco ) as well as others have publicly alleged that linux may infringe certain third-party intellectual property rights. as noted below, sco has also filed suit against ibm, alleging, among other things, that certain linux kernels wrongfully include sco intellectual property. uncertainty concerning sco or others allegations, regardless of their merit, could adversely affect sales of our products. if sco or others were to prevail in this or other actions related to their claims regarding linux or other products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. an adverse legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could harm our business and may do so materially. see legal proceedings . we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our products are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may 23 table of contents be liberally copied, modified and distributed. the gnu general public license is a subject of litigation in the case of the sco group, inc. v. international business machines corp., pending in the united states district court for the district of utah. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable in that or other litigation or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that open source components of our product offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, may have the effect of preventing us from distributing or developing all or a portion of our products. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may no longer be compatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from continuing to distribute the software code subject to the modified license. our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products and expose us to litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and will continue to be found in our products after commencement of commercial shipments. this risk is exacerbated by the fact that much of the code in our products is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them and may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. errors and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince commercial users of the benefits of linux-based operating systems and other open source software products. in addition, failures in our products could cause system or other failures for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our license agreements with our customers often contain provisions which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. in addition, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to this type of claim. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time consuming to defend and could materially harm our business. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our most valuable intellectual property is our collection of trademarks. the protective steps we have taken in the past have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of, our trademark rights. although we do not believe that we have suffered material harm from misappropriation to date, we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in each of those regions. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products and services. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy the red hat brand and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our products could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our product innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be 24 table of contents adversely affected, which in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our products and further our research and development efforts, and could adversely affect our business. in connection with our restatement of historical financial statements, class action lawsuits have been filed against us and additional lawsuits may be filed. following our announcement in july 2004 of our intention to restate certain historical financial statements, 14 class action lawsuits were commenced against us and certain of our current and former directors and officers, by or on behalf of persons claiming to be our stockholders and persons claiming to have purchased or otherwise acquired our securities at specified dates beginning as early as june 19, 2001 and continuing through july 13, 2004. the 14 class action lawsuits have since been consolidated into a single lawsuit. additional lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. regardless of the outcome, it is likely that we will incur substantial defense costs, and these matters may cause a diversion of our management time and attention. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. we are unable at this time to assess the validity of the claims or estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred as a result of the lawsuits. we have not yet established any financial reserves relating to any of these lawsuits. see legal proceedings . we may suffer material adverse consequences if we are deemed to be an investment company and may incur significant costs to avoid investment company status. we may be deemed to be an investment company under the investment company act of 1940 (the 1940 act ), if we own investment securities with a value exceeding 40% of our total assets, unless a particular exclusion or safe harbor provision applies. a large portion of our assets has been invested in investment-grade, interest-bearing securities, many of which constitute investment securities under the 1940 act. as of february 28, 2007, we believe our investment securities did not exceed 40% of our total assets. even if our investment securities exceeded 40% of our total assets, we believe that we would be otherwise excluded from the definition of investment company and the registration requirements of the 1940 act, but, absent an exemptive order from the sec, this result cannot be assured. investment companies are subject to registration under the 1940 act and compliance with a variety of restrictions and requirements imposed under the 1940 act. if we were to be deemed an investment company, we would become subject to the restrictions and requirements of the 1940 act and the consequences of having been an investment company without registering thereunder, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, we may incur significant costs to avoid or eliminate investment company status if an exclusion from the 1940 act were to be considered unavailable for our use at a time when the value of our investments that constitute investment securities exceeds 40% of our total assets. if we were required to change the allocation of our assets to reduce our ownership of securities that constitute investment securities, and acquire non-investment security assets, this could result in transaction costs, the realization of losses on investment securities sold, and a reduction in the rate of return on our liquid assets. our business is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws regarding data protection. our business is subject to federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. we post, on our website, our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines and penalties, a governmental order requiring that we 25 table of contents change our data practices could result, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. risks related to financial uncertainty you should not rely on our quarterly results of operations as an indication of our future results. due to the unpredictability of the technology spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. if, among other considerations, our future operating results fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. further, the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. in addition, several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may lack the financial and operational resources needed to increase our market share and compete effectively. in the market for operating systems and applications, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have. competitors, which offer hardware-independent multi-user operating systems for intel platforms and/or linux and unix-based operating systems, include microsoft, oracle, novell, ibm, sun and hp. we may lack the resources needed to compete successfully with our current competitors as well as potential new competitors. moreover, we compete in certain areas with our strategic partners and potential strategic partners, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for our products and services, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market opportunity. we may have to lower the prices of our products and services to stay competitive, which could affect our margins and financial condition. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, we may lose market share. industry consolidation may also effect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, which may have an adverse effect on our business. 26 table of contents in the market for services offerings, we face significant competition from larger companies, including those that currently provide service and training related to the linux operating system as well as other operating systems, particularly unix-based operating systems, due to the fact that linux- and unix-based operating systems share many common features. these larger companies, including ibm, oracle, novell and hp, may be able to leverage their existing service organizations and provide higher levels of consulting and training on a more cost-effective basis than we can. we may not be able to compete successfully with our current or potential competitors. during the latter part of our fiscal 2007 third quarter, several of our largest competitors made announcements relevant to markets in which we operate, including an announcement by oracle to offer linux support services and an announcement by novell regarding an agreement with microsoft to collaborate on technology, a cross covenant not to sue the other party customers for patent infringement and an agreement by microsoft to purchase and distribute coupons for suse linux maintenance and support. given the recent nature of these developments, the impact of such developments remains unclear. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented 36.1% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2007, continue to expand. our international operations accounted for 36.1% of total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2007. as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally-dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize software products for a significant number of international markets, which may negatively affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business overseas that may negatively affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners outside of the united states; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights overseas due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with the red hat brand; export controls and times of crisis could prevent us from shipping our products into and out of certain markets; changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers could affect the competitive pricing of our products and service and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets could result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenues associated with them. moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with 27 table of contents these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies and procedures or the law, could have a material adverse effect on our business. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenues and expenses in different jurisdictions. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. we are regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. while we endeavor to comply with all applicable tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law than we do or that we will comply in all respects with applicable tax laws, which could result in additional taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these audits will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period for which the review is made. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are typically 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect these reduced revenues. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls or fail on an ongoing basis to properly address section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sox ), including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet the section 404 requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our products and services, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. 28 table of contents if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of section 404 of sox, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial position of our business could be harmed; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of fixed-income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities which have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. a hypothetical one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a $10.9 million change in interest income on an annual basis. our convertible debentures are at a fixed interest rate and therefore interest expense is not impacted by a change in rates. the fair market value of the debentures is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. generally the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt increases as interest rates fall and decreases as interest rates rise. the fair market value of debt with conversion features permitting conversion into the issuer stock, like our debentures, also generally increases as the market price of the underlying stock increases and decreases as the market price falls, assuming constant market interest rates. interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of our debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. the fair value of the debentures was approximately $609.6 million and $668.0 million based on quoted market prices as of february 28, 2007 and february 28, 2006, respectively. investment risk the fair market value of our investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage point increase in prevailing 51 table of contents interest rates would result in an approximate $7.3 million and $8.1 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 28, 2007 and february 28, 2006, respectively. derivative instruments we did not hold derivative financial instruments as of february 28, 2007. foreign currency risk approximately 36.1% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2007 were produced by sales outside the united states. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenues, operating expenses and net income for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenues, operating expenses and net income will decrease for our non-u.s. operations if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. using the average foreign currency exchange rates from fiscal 2006, our revenues from non-u.s. operations for the year ended february 28, 2007 would have been lower than we reported using the exchange rates for fiscal 2007 by approximately $1.8 million. additionally, the assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect as of the applicable balance sheet dates, while related revenue and expense accounts of these operations are translated at average exchange rates during the month in which related transactions occur. translation gains and losses are included as an adjustment to stockholders equity and included in other comprehensive income. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 52 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. moreover, certain statements contained in this report and the documents incorporated by reference in this report, including in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that is not strictly a historical statement (for example, statements regarding current or future financial performance, management plans and objectives for future operations, product plans and performance, management expectations regarding market risk and market penetration, management assessment of market factors or strategies, objectives and plans of red hat and its partners). words such as anticipates, believes, expects, estimates, intends, plans, projects, and similar expressions, may also identify such forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of red hat future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause red hat actual results to differ materially from those found in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. these risks and uncertainties include the risks and cautionary statements detailed below and elsewhere in this report as well as in red hat other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ), copies of which may be accessed through the sec web site at http://www.sec.gov. readers are urged to carefully review these risks and cautionary statements. the forward-looking statements included in this report represent our views as of the date of this report. we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this report. risks related to business uncertainty if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading hardware manufacturers, distributors, software vendors and enterprise solutions providers such as sap ag ( sap ), dell inc. ( dell ), hewlett-packard co. ( hp ), international business machines corporation ( ibm ), sun microsystems, inc. ( sun ), fujitsu limited ( fujitsu ), nec corporation ( nec ) and others. these relationships allow us to offer our products and services to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able to through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms. in addition, our existing strategic relationships do not, and any future strategic relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. as a result, many of the companies, with which we have strategic alliances pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our products and services, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions (for example, our acquisition of jboss in june 2006), and we may continue to do so in the future. we have limited experience in making acquisitions, and acquisitions present significant challenges and risks, including: the difficulty of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the acquired companies; 18 table of contents the difficulty of gathering full information regarding the target business prior to the acquisition; the maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel; the inability to maintain a relationship with customers of the acquired business; challenges in maintaining good and effective relations with existing business partners or of those of the acquired business, including as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape effected by the acquisition; the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services and of maintaining quality standards consistent with our brand; the potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition; expenses related to the acquisition; potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses; and unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration into existing technology. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we have pursued or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing such acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price. we could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution, or we may incur substantial debt. any acquisition may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, which may adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. for example, our total revenue increased from approximately $400.6 million for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2007 to approximately $523.0 million for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2008. moreover, the total number of our employees increased from over 1,800 as of february 28, 2007 to over 2,200 as of february 29, 2008 and is expected to generally increase in the foreseeable future. in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our product and service offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully offer products and services and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources and oversight from our senior management. as we grow, we must also continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. as we grow and expand globally, controls and oversight functions will become more complex and distributed and may in part be outsourced. we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise and manage sufficient personnel or develop management, or effectively manage and develop our controls and oversight functions and information systems to adequately manage our expansion effectively. if we are unable to adequately manage our growth and expansion, our operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. we rely, to a significant degree, on an indirect sales channel for distribution of our products and services, and disruption of any part of this channel could adversely affect the sales of our products. we use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including indirect channel partners, such as third party oems, resellers and distributors. a number of these partners in turn 19 table of contents distribute via their own networks of channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers), with whom we have no direct relationship. we rely, to a significant degree, on our channel partners to, among other activities, select, screen and maintain relationships with our distribution network and for the distribution of our products and services in a manner that is consistent with red hat quality standards. our indirect distribution channel could be affected by disruptions in the relationships of and with our channel partners and their networks, including their customers or suppliers. as a result, we may be required to devote greater support and professional services resources to distribute our products and support our customers, which could drive up costs and may not be as effective. we cannot guarantee that our channel partners will market our products effectively. disruptions in our distribution channel or poor marketing support by channel partners could lead to decreased sales or slower than expected growth or increased distribution and support costs. we rely on software licensed from other parties, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay software shipments. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties. our business would be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. in either case, we would be required to either redesign our products to function with software available from other parties or develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs and could result in delays in our product shipments and the release of new product offerings. furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future products. if we fail to maintain or renegotiate any of these software licenses, we could face significant delays and diversion of resources in attempting to license and integrate a functional equivalent of the software. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain capable management personnel. our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent the technology sector performs well and/or if companies with more generous compensation packages or greater perceived growth opportunities compete for the same personnel. in addition, historically we have used share-based compensation as a key component of our compensation packages. changes in the accounting for share-based compensation could adversely affect our earnings or force us to use more cash compensation to attract and retain capable personnel. volatility in the stock market may reduce the value of our share-based awards to the recipient. such events, or if we are unable to secure shareholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for share-based compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. we depend on our key personnel that we employ. our future success depends on the services and effectiveness of a number of key officers and employees, including our ceo, who assumed his role on january 1, 2008. the loss of the technical knowledge and industry expertise of any of these individuals could seriously impede our success. moreover, the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish the red hat brand and adversely affect our business or stock price. a number of our key employees have become, or will soon become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly appreciated in value. if we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our ceo and key employees and attracting new key personnel, our business, its financial performance and our stock price may decline. 20 table of contents our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and teamwork. as our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees. our subscription-based contract model may encounter customer resistance or we may experience a decline in the demand for our products. the subscription agreement used for many of our products, including red hat enterprise linux, requires customers to agree to a subscription for our services for each installed system on which they deploy our subscription based products. at the same time, the subscription agreement places no restriction on the customer right to redistribute the products. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, we may still encounter customer resistance to this distribution model. to the extent we are unsuccessful in promoting or defending this distribution model, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. if our current and future customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, our revenue and operating results may be adversely impacted. our customers may not renew their subscriptions for our service after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact, some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower priced edition of our services or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our revenue and operating results may be adversely impacted. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new products, adequately enhance our existing products or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our products. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our products or we would need to develop and enhance our products with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our product release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be 21 table of contents stifled and our products could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or shipping new or enhanced products could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those products and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make offerings compatible with our offerings, our software will cease to be competitive. our products will not be competitive unless third-party enterprise hardware and software offerings are compatible with our offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to the linux platform, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various hardware platforms by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our products will not be competitive and our sales growth will be adversely affected. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our products and damage our reputation. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. if we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our products but competing technology becomes more widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our products may be reduced and that could harm our reputation, diminish the red hat brand and result in decreased revenue. because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry in the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for new competitors with greater resources than we have to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone can modify the existing software or develop new software that competes with existing open source software. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for new competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions, potentially reducing the demand for our solutions. for example, in october 2006 oracle corporation ( oracle ) announced plans to sell support for its version of the linux operating system. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry as well as maintaining a strong brand. investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services and technology infrastructure. if we are unable to ensure that our users and customers have a high quality experience with our products and services, then they may become dissatisfied and move to competitors products and services. in addition, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose customers. 22 table of contents we believe that the brand identity that we have developed has contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing the red hat brand is important to expanding our customer base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brand, we may be required to make substantial investments that may or may not be successful. if we fail to promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. maintaining our brand will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high quality products and services. our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to improve the performance and reliability of our services. our failure to adapt to such changes would harm our business. in addition, the widespread adoption of other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and product road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. security and privacy breaches may expose us to liability and cause us to lose customers. our security and testing measures may not prevent security breaches that could harm our business. for example, a significant number of our users provide us with credit card and other confidential information and authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for our products and services. typically, we rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to enhance transmission security of confidential information. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate facility security or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer data. any compromise of our security could harm our reputation or financial condition and, therefore, our business. in addition, a party who is able to circumvent our security measures or exploit inadequacies in our security measures, could, among other effects, misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations or expose customers to computer viruses or other disruptions. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. we are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to sell our products and services, support our partners, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by internal employees and contractors as well as third parties. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of system failures. any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers and partners would create a large volume of user questions and complaints that would need to be addressed by our support personnel rather than by self-help. if our support personnel cannot meet this demand, customer and partner satisfaction levels may fall, which in turn could cause additional claims or reduced revenue. 23 table of contents risks related to legal uncertainty if our products are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our products, replace components of our products, enter into license agreements with third parties and provide infringement indemnification. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our enterprise products are found to infringe any third party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the product consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the product so that it is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and indemnify them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying the commitments could be costly and time consuming and could materially and adversely affect our financial position and results. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. we are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights because our products are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties, and an adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property could materially harm our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patent, copyright and trade secrets because our products are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. moreover, because the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined, patent applications in the united states are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing, we may be unable to assess the relevance of patents to our products, or take appropriate responsive action, in a timely or economic manner. we expect that our products could increasingly be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. defending patent infringement, copyright infringement and/or trade secret claims, even claims without significant merit, can be expensive. the sco group, inc. ( sco ) as well as others have publicly alleged that linux may infringe certain third-party intellectual property rights. sco filed suit against ibm, alleging, among other things, that certain linux kernels wrongfully include sco intellectual property. uncertainty concerning allegations of this type, regardless of their merit, could adversely affect sales of our products. if those asserting such claims were to prevail in this or other actions related to their claims regarding linux or other products, our business could be materially and adversely affected. an adverse legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could harm our business and may do so materially. see legal proceedings . we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our products are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable in that or other litigation or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that open source components of our product offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, may have the effect of preventing us from distributing or developing all or a portion of our products. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their 24 table of contents license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may no longer be compatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from continuing to distribute the software code subject to the modified license. our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products and expose us to litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and will continue to be found in our products after commencement of commercial shipments. this risk is exacerbated by the fact that much of the code in our products is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them and may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. errors and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince commercial users of the benefits of linux-based operating systems and other open source software products. in addition, failures in our products could cause system or other failures for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our license agreements with our customers often contain provisions which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. in addition, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to this type of claim. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time consuming to defend and could materially harm our business. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our most valuable intellectual property is our collection of trademarks. the protective steps we have taken in the past have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of, our trademark rights. although we do not believe that we have suffered material harm from misappropriation to date, we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in each of those regions. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products and services. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy the red hat brand and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our products could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our product innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be adversely affected, which in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our products and further our research and development efforts, and could adversely affect our business. 25 table of contents we are, and may become, involved in disputes and lawsuits that could have a material adverse affect on our performance or stock price. following our announcement in july 2004 of our intention to restate certain historical financial statements, 14 class action lawsuits were commenced against us and certain of our current and former directors and officers, by or on behalf of persons claiming to be our stockholders and persons claiming to have purchased or otherwise acquired our securities at specified dates beginning as early as june 19, 2001 and continuing through july 13, 2004. the 14 class action lawsuits have since been consolidated into a single lawsuit. additional lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. regardless of the outcome, it is likely that we will incur substantial defense costs, and these matters may cause a diversion of our management time and attention. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. we are unable at this time to assess the validity of the claims or estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred as a result of the lawsuits. we have not yet established any financial reserves relating to any of these lawsuits. see legal proceedings for additional information on certain matters that may affect our performance or stock price. we may suffer material adverse consequences if we are deemed to be an investment company and may incur significant costs to avoid investment company status. we may be deemed to be an investment company under the investment company act of 1940 (the 1940 act ), if we own investment securities with a value exceeding 40% of our total assets, unless a particular exclusion or safe harbor provision applies. a large portion of our assets has been invested in investment-grade, interest-bearing securities, many of which constitute investment securities under the 1940 act. as of february 29, 2008, we believe our investment securities did not exceed 40% of our total assets. even if our investment securities exceeded 40% of our total assets, we believe that we would be otherwise excluded from the definition of investment company and the registration requirements of the 1940 act, but, absent an exemptive order from the sec, this result cannot be assured. investment companies are subject to registration under the 1940 act and compliance with a variety of restrictions and requirements imposed under the 1940 act. if we were to be deemed an investment company, we would become subject to the restrictions and requirements of the 1940 act and the consequences of having been an investment company without registering thereunder, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. in addition, we may incur significant costs to avoid or eliminate investment company status if an exclusion from the 1940 act were to be considered unavailable for our use at a time when the value of our investments that constitute investment securities exceeds 40% of our total assets. if we were required to change the allocation of our assets to reduce our ownership of securities that constitute investment securities, and acquire non-investment security assets, this could result in transaction costs, the realization of losses on investment securities sold, and a reduction in the rate of return on our liquid assets. our business is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws regarding data protection. our business is subject to federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. we post, on our website, our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines and penalties, a governmental order requiring that we change our data practices could result, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. 26 table of contents risks related to financial uncertainty you should not rely on our quarterly results of operations as an indication of our future results. due to the unpredictability of the technology spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. if, among other considerations, our future operating results fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. further, the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. in addition, several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may lack the financial and operational resources needed to increase our market share and compete effectively. in the market for operating systems and applications, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have. competitors, which offer hardware-independent multi-user operating systems for intel platforms and/or linux and unix-based operating systems, include microsoft corporation ( microsoft ), oracle, novell inc. ( novell ), ibm, sun and hp. we may lack the resources needed to compete successfully with our current competitors as well as potential new competitors. moreover, we compete in certain areas with our strategic partners and potential strategic partners, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for our products and services, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market opportunity. we may have to lower the prices of our products and services to stay competitive, which could affect our margins and financial condition. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, we may lose market share. industry consolidation may also effect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, which may have an adverse effect on our business. in the market for services offerings, we face significant competition from larger companies, including those that currently provide service and training related to the linux operating system as well as other operating systems, particularly unix-based operating systems, due to the fact that linux-and unix-based operating systems share many common features. these larger companies, including ibm, oracle, novell and hp, may be able to leverage their existing service organizations and provide higher levels of consulting and training on a more cost-effective basis than we can. we may not be able to compete successfully with our current or potential competitors. 27 table of contents during fiscal 2007, several of our largest competitors made announcements relevant to markets in which we operate, including an announcement by oracle to offer linux support services and an announcement by novell regarding an agreement with microsoft to collaborate on technology, a cross covenant not to sue the other party customers for patent infringement and an agreement by microsoft to purchase and distribute coupons for suse linux maintenance and support. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented approximately 39.5 % of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2008, continue to expand. our international operations accounted for approximately 39.5% of total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2008. as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally-dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize software products for a significant number of international markets, which may negatively affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business overseas that may negatively affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners outside of the united states; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights overseas due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with the red hat brand; export controls and times of crisis could prevent us from shipping our products into and out of certain markets; changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers could affect the competitive pricing of our products and service and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets could result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenue associated with them. moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies and procedures or the law, could have a material adverse effect on our business. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 28 table of contents we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. we are regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. while we endeavor to comply with all applicable tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law than we do or that we will comply in all respects with applicable tax laws, which could result in additional taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these audits will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period for which the review is made. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls or fail on an ongoing basis to properly address section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sox ), including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet the section 404 requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our products and services, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of section 404 of sox, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial position of our 29 table of contents business could be harmed; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm earnings. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. our debt securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. these investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose the value of our entire investment in these companies. we are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the u.s. dollar will affect our net revenue, operating expenses and operating margins. we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. we have begun to use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts to economically hedge u.s. dollar and other currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. if these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. 30 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of fixed-income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities which have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. a hypothetical one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a $11.9 million change in interest income on an annual basis. our convertible debentures are at a fixed interest rate and therefore interest expense is not impacted by a change in rates. the fair market value of the debentures is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. generally the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt increases as interest rates fall and decreases as interest rates rise. the fair market value of debt with conversion features permitting conversion into the issuer stock, like our debentures, also generally increases as the market price of the underlying stock increases and decreases as the market price falls, assuming constant market interest rates. interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of our debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. the fair value of the debentures was approximately $568.7 million and $609.6 million based on quoted market prices as of february 29, 2008 and february 28, 2007, respectively. investment risk the fair market value of our investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage point increase in prevailing interest rates would result in an approximate $4.1 million and $7.3 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 29, 2008 and february 28, 2007, respectively. derivative instruments during the year ended february 29, 2008 we entered into a forward contract with a global financial institution to hedge foreign currency exposure associated with a japanese yen denominated transaction. at february 29, 2008, the forward contract is recorded on the balance sheet at fair market value in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended. we have elected not to qualify the forward contract for hedge accounting treatment and as a result, changes in the fair value of the forward contract, which totaled $0.4 million for the year ended february 29, 2008, are included in our consolidated statements of operations. the notional amount of the outstanding forward contract at february 29, 2008 was $16.7 million. the fair value of the outstanding forward contract at february 29, 2008 was a $0.4 million asset and is included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheet. we did not hold derivative financial instruments at february 28, 2007. 57 table of contents foreign currency risk approximately 39.5% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2008 were produced by sales outside the united states. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue, operating expenses and net income will decrease for our non-u.s. operations if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. using the average foreign currency exchange rates from fiscal 2007, our revenue from non-u.s. operations for the year ended february 29, 2008 would have been lower than we reported using the exchange rates for fiscal 2008 by approximately $13.5 million. additionally, the assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect as of the applicable balance sheet dates, while related revenue and expense accounts of these operations are translated at average exchange rates during the month in which related transactions occur. translation gains and losses are included as an adjustment to stockholders equity and included in other comprehensive income. for further discussion, see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 58 table of contentsrisk factors 19 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. moreover, certain statements contained in this report and the documents incorporated by reference in this report, including in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that is not strictly a historical statement (for example, statements regarding current or future financial performance, management plans and objectives for future operations, product plans and performance, management expectations regarding market risk and market penetration, management assessment of market factors or strategies, objectives and plans of red hat and its partners). words such as anticipates, believes, expects, estimates, intends, plans, projects, and similar expressions, may also identify such forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of red hat future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause red hat actual results to differ materially from those found in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. these risks and uncertainties include the risks and cautionary statements detailed below and elsewhere in this report as well as in red hat other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ), copies of which may be accessed through the sec web site at http://www.sec.gov. readers are urged to carefully review these risks and cautionary statements. the forward-looking statements included in this report represent our views as of the date of this report. we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this report. risks related to business uncertainty unfavorable economic and market conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. economic weakness and constrained it spending from time to time contribute, and are now contributing, to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which the company operates, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region, such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the united states and elsewhere. this slowdown and the uncertainty about future economic conditions may, among other things, negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases or lengthen our sales cycle. adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, these conditions may impact our investment portfolio, and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. also, these conditions may make it more difficult to forecast operating results. if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, companies may delay or reduce their it spending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading hardware manufacturers, distributors, software vendors 19 table of contents and enterprise solutions providers such as sap ag ( sap ), dell inc. ( dell ), hewlett-packard co. ( hp ), international business machines corporation ( ibm ), sun microsystems, inc. ( sun ), fujitsu limited ( fujitsu ), nec corporation ( nec ) and others. these relationships allow us to offer our products and services to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms. in addition, our existing strategic relationships do not, and any future strategic relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. as a result, many of the companies with which we have strategic alliances pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our products and services, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, divert management attention, adversely effect our financial condition or results of operations and dilute stockholder value. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions (for example, our acquisition of jboss in june 2006 and our acquisition of qumranet in september 2008), and we may continue to do so in the future. we have limited experience in making acquisitions, and acquisitions present significant challenges and risks, including: the difficulty of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the acquired companies; the difficulty of gathering full information regarding the target business prior to the acquisition; the maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel; the inability to maintain a relationship with customers of the acquired business; the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business; challenges in maintaining good and effective relations with existing business partners or of those of the acquired business, including as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape effected by the acquisition; the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services and of maintaining quality standards consistent with our brand; the potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition; expenses related to the acquisition; potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses; unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration into existing technology; and the issuance of shares of our common stock in connection with an acquisition or business combination would dilute our current stockholders percentage of ownership. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we have pursued or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing such acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion 20 table of contents of the purchase price. we could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution, or we may incur substantial debt. any acquisition may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, which may adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. for example, our total revenue increased from approximately $523.0 million for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2008 to approximately $652.6 million for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2009. moreover, the total number of our employees increased from over 2,200 as of february 29, 2008 to over 2,800 as of february 28, 2009 and is expected to generally increase in the foreseeable future. in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our product and service offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully offer products and services and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources and oversight from our senior management. as we grow, we must also continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. as we grow and expand globally, controls and oversight functions will become more complex and distributed and may in part be outsourced. we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise and manage sufficient personnel or develop management, or effectively manage and develop our controls and oversight functions and information systems to adequately manage our expansion effectively. if we are unable to adequately manage our growth and expansion, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we rely, to a significant degree, on an indirect sales channel for distribution of our products and services, and disruption of any part of this channel could adversely affect the sales of our products. we use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including indirect channel partners, such as third-party oems, resellers and distributors. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers), with whom we have no direct relationship. we rely, to a significant degree, on our channel partners to, among other activities, select, screen and maintain relationships with our indirect distribution network and for the distribution of our products and services in a manner that is consistent with red hat quality standards. our indirect distribution channel could be affected by disruptions in the relationships of and with our channel partners and their networks, including their customers or suppliers. as a result, we may be required to devote greater support and professional services resources to distribute our products and support our customers, which could drive up costs and may not be as effective. we cannot guarantee that our channel partners will market our products effectively. disruptions in our distribution channel or poor marketing support by channel partners could lead to decreased sales or slower than expected growth or increased distribution and support costs. we rely on software licensed from other parties, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay software shipments. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties. aspects of our business could be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. in either case, we would be required to either redesign our products to function with software available from other parties, develop these components ourselves or eliminate the functionality, which would result in increased costs, delays in our product shipments and the release of new product offerings and limit the features available in our current or future products. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain capable management personnel. our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent the technology sector performs well and/or if companies with more generous 21 table of contents compensation packages or greater perceived growth opportunities compete for the same personnel. in addition, historically we have used share-based compensation as a key component of our compensation packages. changes in the accounting for share-based compensation could adversely affect our earnings or force us to use more cash compensation to attract and retain capable personnel. volatility in the stock market may reduce the value of our share-based awards to the recipient. such events, or if we are unable to secure shareholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for share-based compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. we depend on our key personnel that we employ. our future success depends on the services and effectiveness of a number of key officers and employees, including our ceo, who assumed his role on january 1, 2008. the loss of the technical knowledge and industry expertise of any of these individuals could seriously impede our success. moreover, the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish the red hat brand and adversely affect our business or stock price. a number of our key employees have become, or will soon become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly appreciated in value. if we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our ceo and key employees and attracting new key personnel, our business, its financial performance and our stock price may decline. our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and teamwork. as our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees. our subscription-based contract model may encounter customer resistance or we may experience a decline in the demand for our products. the subscription agreement used for many of our products, including red hat enterprise linux, requires customers to agree to a subscription for our services for each installed system on which they deploy our subscription based products. at the same time, the subscription agreement places no restriction on the customer right to redistribute the products. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, we may still encounter customer resistance to this distribution model or customers may fail to honor the terms of our subscription agreements. to the extent we are unsuccessful in promoting or defending this distribution model, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. if our current and future customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, our operating results may be adversely impacted. our customers may not renew their subscriptions for our service after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact, some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower priced edition of our services or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of 22 table of contents customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our operating results may be adversely impacted. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new products, adequately enhance our existing products or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our products. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our products or we would need to develop and enhance our products with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our product release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our products could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or shipping new or enhanced products could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those products and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make offerings compatible with our offerings, our software will cease to be competitive. our products will not be competitive unless third-party enterprise hardware and software offerings are compatible with our offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to the linux platform, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various hardware platforms by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our products will not be competitive and our sales growth will be adversely affected. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our products and damage our reputation. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. if we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our products but competing technology becomes more widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our products may be reduced and that could harm our reputation, diminish the red hat brand and result in decreased revenue. 23 table of contents because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry in the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for new competitors with greater resources than we have to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone can modify the existing software or develop new software that competes with existing open source software. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for new competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our solutions. for example, in october 2006 oracle corporation ( oracle ) announced plans to sell support for its version of the linux operating system. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. there has been a trend in industry consolidation in our markets for several years. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry as well as maintaining a strong brand. investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services and technology infrastructure. if we are unable to ensure that our users and customers have a high quality experience with our products and services, then they may become dissatisfied and move to competitors products and services. in addition, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose customers. we believe that the brand identity that we have developed has contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing the red hat brand is important to expanding our customer base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brand, we may be required to make substantial investments that may or may not be successful. if we fail to promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. maintaining our brand will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high quality products and services. our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to improve the performance and reliability of our services. our failure to adapt to such changes would harm our business. in addition, the widespread adoption of other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and product road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. 24 table of contents we must effectively develop, deliver and stimulate demand for new products and technologies in order to remain competitive. we operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements. to retain and grow our market share, we must continually introduce new and innovative offerings and technologies, enhance and adapt existing offerings and technologies and effectively stimulate customer demand for our new offerings. delays in developing, completing or shipping new or enhanced offerings and technologies could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings and technologies. the success of new and enhanced offering introductions depend on several factors, including our ability to develop and complete in a timely manner, successfully promote the offerings, manage the risks associated with the offerings, make sufficient resources available to support them and address any quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. our failure to deliver new and enhanced offerings and technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner and to effectively stimulate demand for them may harm our reputation as a leader in open source technology, diminish the red hat brand and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. security and privacy breaches may expose us to liability and cause us to lose customers. our security and testing measures may not prevent security breaches that could harm our business. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate technology or facility security measures or other factors may result in a compromise or breach of our systems and the data we process. any compromise of our systems or the data we process could harm our reputation or financial condition and, therefore, our business. in addition, a party who is able to circumvent our security measures or exploit inadequacies in our security measures, could, among other effects, misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations or expose customers to computer viruses or other disruptions or vulnerabilities. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by customers, partners or other third-parties, which could be material. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. we are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our reputation and business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to sell our products and services, support our partners, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer intrusions and viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by internal employees, contractors and third-parties. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation, business and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of system failures or to cover all contingencies. any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers and partners would create a large volume of user questions and complaints that would need to be addressed by our support personnel rather than by self-help. if our support personnel cannot meet this demand, customer and partner satisfaction levels may fall, which in turn could cause additional claims or reduced revenue. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our business could suffer. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various 25 table of contents procurements regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business and affect our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or of our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer an adverse affect on our business, operating results or financial condition. risks related to legal uncertainty if our products are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our products, replace components of our products, enter into license agreements with third parties and provide infringement indemnification. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our enterprise products are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the product consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the product so that it is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and indemnify them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying the commitments could be costly and time consuming and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. we are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights because our products are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties, and an adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property could materially harm our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patent, copyright and trade secrets because our products are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. moreover, because the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined or readily determinable, patent applications in the united states are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing, we may be unable to assess the relevance of patents to our products, or take appropriate responsive action, in a timely or economic manner. we expect that our products could increasingly be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the size of our business and market share grow, the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. defending patent infringement, copyright infringement and/or trade secret claims, even claims without significant merit, can be expensive. the sco group, inc. ( sco ) as well as others have publicly alleged that linux may infringe certain third-party intellectual property rights. sco filed suit against ibm, alleging, among other things, that certain linux kernels wrongfully include sco intellectual property. uncertainty concerning allegations of this type, regardless of their merit, could adversely affect our reputation and business. if those asserting such claims were to prevail in this or other actions related to their claims regarding linux or other products, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. an adverse legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could harm our business and may do so materially. see legal proceedings . 26 table of contents we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our products are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that open source components of our product offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, may have the effect of preventing us from distributing or developing all or a portion of our products. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may no longer be compatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from continuing to distribute the software code subject to the modified license. our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products and expose us to claims and litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and will continue to be found in our products after commencement of commercial shipments. this risk is exacerbated by the fact that much of the code in our products is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them and may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. errors and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince commercial users of the benefits of linux-based operating systems and other open source software products. in addition, failures in our products could cause system or other failures for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our license agreements with our customers often contain provisions which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. in addition, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to this type of claim. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time consuming to defend and could materially harm our business. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third-parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our collection of trademarks is valuable and important to our business. the protective steps we have taken in the past have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of, our trademark rights. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in each of those regions. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products and services. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy the red hat brand and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. 27 table of contents efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our products could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our product innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be adversely affected, which in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our products and further our research and development efforts, and could adversely affect our business. we are, and may become, involved in disputes and lawsuits that could have a material adverse affect on our performance or stock price. following our announcement in july 2004 of our intention to restate certain historical financial statements, 14 class action lawsuits were commenced against us and certain of our current and former directors and officers, by or on behalf of persons claiming to be our stockholders and persons claiming to have purchased or otherwise acquired our securities at specified dates beginning as early as june 19, 2001 and continuing through july 13, 2004. the 14 class action lawsuits have since been consolidated into a single lawsuit. additional lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. regardless of the outcome, it is likely that we will incur substantial defense costs, and these matters may cause a diversion of our management time and attention. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. we are unable at this time to assess the validity of the claims or estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred as a result of the lawsuits. we have not yet established any financial reserves relating to any of these lawsuits. see legal proceedings for additional information on certain matters that may affect our performance or stock price. our business is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws regarding data protection. our business is subject to federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. we post, on our website, our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines and penalties, a governmental order requiring that we change our data practices could result, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. risks related to financial uncertainty our quarterly operating results may not be a reliable indicator of our future operating results. due to the unpredictability of the technology spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. if, among other considerations, our future operating results fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. 28 table of contents our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. further, the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. in addition, several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may lack the financial and operational resources needed to increase our market share and compete effectively. in the market for operating systems and applications, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have. competitors, which offer hardware-independent multi-user operating systems for intel platforms and/or linux and unix-based operating systems, include microsoft, oracle, novell, ibm, sun and hp. we may lack the resources needed to compete successfully with our current competitors as well as potential new competitors. moreover, we compete in certain areas with our strategic partners and potential strategic partners, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for our products and services, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market opportunity. we may have to lower the prices of our products and services to stay competitive, which could affect our margins and financial condition. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, we may lose market share. industry consolidation may also effect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, which may have an adverse effect on our business. in the market for services offerings, we face significant competition from larger companies, including those that currently provide service and training related to the linux operating system as well as other operating systems, particularly unix-based operating systems, due to the fact that linux-and unix-based operating systems share many common features. these larger companies, including ibm, oracle, novell and hp, may be able to leverage their existing service organizations and provide higher levels of consulting and training on a more cost-effective basis than we can. we may not be able to compete successfully with our current or potential competitors. during fiscal 2007, several of our largest competitors made announcements relevant to markets in which we operate, including an announcement by oracle to offer linux support services and an announcement by novell regarding an agreement with microsoft to collaborate on technology, a cross covenant not to sue the other party customers for patent infringement and an agreement by microsoft to purchase and distribute coupons for suse linux maintenance and support. microsoft and novell announced an extension of their partnership and the purchase and distribution of an additional $100 million in coupons for suse linux by microsoft in august 2008. 29 table of contents we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented approximately 40.9% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2009, continue to expand. our international operations accounted for approximately 40.9% of total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2009. as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally-dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource or supplement general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize software products for a significant number of international markets, which may negatively affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business overseas that may negatively affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners outside of the united states; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights overseas due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with the red hat brand; export control regulations could prevent us from shipping our products into and out of certain markets; changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers could affect the competitive pricing of our products and service and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets could result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenue associated with them. moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies and procedures or the law, could have a material adverse effect on our business. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. we are regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. while we endeavor to comply with all applicable tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law than we do or that we will comply in all respects with applicable tax laws, which could result in additional taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these audits will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period for which the review is made. 30 table of contents because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls or fail on an ongoing basis to properly address section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sox ), including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet the section 404 requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our products and services, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of section 404 of sox, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial position of our business could be harmed; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and illiquidity risks and fluctuations in the market value of our investments and interest rates. these risks may result in an impairment in or the loss of all or portion of the value of our investments, an inability to sell our investments and a decline in interest income. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. our portfolio as of february 28, 2009 consisted primarily of money market funds, u.s. government securities, certificates of deposit, agency securities, corporate securities and equity securities. although we follow an established 31 table of contents investment policy and seek to minimize the risks associated investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security or issuer, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value or become impaired, or that our interest income will not decline. during fiscal 2009 we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $2.2 million to recognize an estimated, unrealized loss in one of our debt security investments. this charge had an adverse impact on net income and earnings per share. for further discussion of this charge, see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. we may be required to record additional impairment charges for other-than-temporary declines in fair market value in our investments. future fluctuations in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could record additional impairment charges and lose some or all of the principal value of investments in our portfolio. a total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. these investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose the value of our entire investment in these companies. we are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the u.s. dollar will affect our net revenue, operating expenses and operating margins. we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. we have begun to use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to economically hedge u.s. dollar and other currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. if these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. for information regarding our hedging activity, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of fixed-income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities which have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or perceived credit risk related to the securities issuers. a hypothetical one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a $7.0 million change in interest income on an annual basis. investment risk the fair market value of our investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage point increase in prevailing interest rates would result in an approximate $2.6 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 28, 2009. credit risk the fair market values of our investment portfolio and cash balances are exposed to counterparty credit risk. accordingly, while we periodically review our portfolio for risk mitigation, the principal values of our cash balances, money market accounts and investments in available-for-sale securities could suffer a loss of value. derivative instruments we transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. we sometimes enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. all derivative instruments are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their respective fair market values in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended. the company has elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify as an accounting hedge and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2009 was $3.8 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2009 was gross, a $0.1 million liability and a less than $0.1 million asset, and is recorded in accrued expenses on the consolidated balance sheets. the forward contracts generally expire within two months of the period ended february 28, 2009. the forward contracts will settle in swiss francs, swedish krona, czech koruna, israeli shekels, canadian dollars and u.s. dollars. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 29, 2008 was $16.7 million. the fair value of these contracts at february 29, 2008 was a $0.4 million asset and is included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheets. 61 table of contents foreign currency risk approximately 40.9% of our revenue for the year ended february 28, 2009 was produced by sales outside the united states. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenue, operating expenses and income from operations for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue, operating expenses and net income will decrease for our non-u.s. operations if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. using the average foreign currency exchange rates from fiscal 2008, our revenue and operating expenses from non-u.s. operations for the year ended february 28, 2009, would have been lower than we reported using the exchange rates for fiscal 2009 by approximately $7.6 million and $2.8 million, respectively, which would have resulted in income from operations being $4.8 million lower. additionally, the assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect as of the applicable balance sheet dates, while related revenue and expense accounts of these operations are translated at average exchange rates during the month in which related transactions occur. translation gains and losses are included as an adjustment to stockholders equity and included in other comprehensive income. for further discussion, see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 19 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. moreover, certain statements contained in this report and the documents incorporated by reference in this report, including in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that is not strictly a historical statement (for example, statements regarding current or future financial performance, management plans and objectives for future operations, product plans and performance, management expectations regarding market risk and market penetration, management assessment of market factors or strategies, objectives and plans of red hat and its partners). words such as anticipates, believes, expects, estimates, intends, plans, projects, and similar expressions, may also identify such forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of red hat future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause red hat actual results to differ materially from those found in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. these risks and uncertainties include the risks and cautionary statements detailed below and elsewhere in this report as well as in red hat other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ), copies of which may be accessed through the sec web site at http://www.sec.gov. readers are urged to carefully review these risks and cautionary statements. the forward-looking statements included in this report represent our views as of the date of this report. we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this report. risks related to business uncertainty ongoing uncertainty regarding the duration and extent of the recent economic downturn and in global economic and market conditions generally could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. economic weakness and uncertainty and constrained it spending from time to time contribute to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region, such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the united states and elsewhere. continuing uncertainty about future economic conditions may, among other things, negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases or lengthen our sales cycle. adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, these conditions may impact our investment portfolio, and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. also, these conditions may make it more difficult to forecast operating results. if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, companies may delay or reduce their it spending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 table of contents if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading hardware manufacturers, distributors, software vendors and enterprise solutions providers such as sap ag ( sap ), dell inc. ( dell ), hewlett-packard co. ( hp ), international business machines corporation ( ibm ), fujitsu limited ( fujitsu ), nec corporation ( nec ) and others. these relationships allow us to offer our products and services to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms. in addition, our existing strategic relationships do not, and any future strategic relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. as a result, many of the companies with which we have strategic alliances pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our products and services, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, divert management attention, adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and dilute stockholder value. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions (for example, our acquisition of jboss in june 2006 and our acquisition of qumranet in september 2008), and we may continue to do so in the future. we have limited experience in making acquisitions, and acquisitions present significant challenges and risks, including: the difficulty of integrating the operations, systems and personnel of the acquired companies; the difficulty of gathering full information regarding the target business prior to the acquisition; the maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel; the inability to maintain a relationship with customers of the acquired business; the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business; challenges in maintaining good and effective relations with existing business partners or of those of the acquired business, including as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape effected by the acquisition; the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services and of maintaining quality standards consistent with our brand; the potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition; expenses related to the acquisition; potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses; unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration into existing technology; and the dilutive impact on our current stockholders percentage of ownership as a result of issuing shares of our common stock in connection with an acquisition or business combination. 20 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we have pursued or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing such acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price. we could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution, or we may incur substantial debt. any acquisition may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, which may adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. for example, our total revenue increased from $652.6 million for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2009 to $748.2 million for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2010. moreover, the total number of our employees increased from over 2,800 as of february 28, 2009 to over 3,200 as of february 28, 2010 and is expected to generally increase in the foreseeable future. in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our product and service offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully offer products and services and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources and oversight from our senior management. as we grow, we must also continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. as we grow and expand globally, controls and oversight functions will become more complex and distributed and may in part be outsourced. we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise and manage sufficient personnel or develop management, or effectively manage and develop our controls and oversight functions and information systems to adequately manage our expansion effectively. if we are unable to adequately manage our growth and expansion, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we rely, to a significant degree, on an indirect sales channel for distribution of our products and services, and disruption of any part of this channel could adversely affect the sales of our products. we use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including indirect channel partners, such as third-party oems, resellers and distributors. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers), with whom we have no direct relationship. we rely, to a significant degree, on our channel partners to, among other activities, select, screen and maintain relationships with our indirect distribution network and for the distribution of our products and services in a manner that is consistent with red hat quality standards. our indirect distribution channel could be affected by disruptions in the relationships of and with our channel partners and their networks, including their customers or suppliers. as a result, we may be required to devote greater support and professional services resources to distribute our products and support our customers, which could drive up costs and may not be as effective. we cannot guarantee that our channel partners will market our products effectively. disruptions in our distribution channel or poor marketing support by channel partners could lead to decreased sales or slower than expected growth or increased distribution and support costs. we rely on software licensed from other parties, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay software shipments. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties. aspects of our business could be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. in either case, we would be required to either redesign our products to function with software available from other parties, develop these components ourselves or eliminate the functionality, which would result in increased costs, delays in our product shipments and the release of new product offerings and limit the features available in our current or future products. 21 table of contents we may not be able to continue to attract and retain capable management personnel. our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent the technology sector performs well and/or if companies with more generous compensation packages or greater perceived growth opportunities compete for the same personnel. in addition, historically we have used share-based compensation as a key component of our compensation packages. changes in the accounting for share-based compensation could adversely affect our earnings or force us to use more cash compensation to attract and retain capable personnel. if the price of our common stock falls, the value of our share-based awards to the recipient is reduced. such events, or if we are unable to secure shareholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for share-based compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. we depend on our key personnel that we employ, the loss of which could adversely affect our business or stock price and diminish the red hat brand. our future success depends on the continued services and effectiveness of a number of key officers and employees, including our ceo, who assumed his role on january 1, 2008. the loss of the technical knowledge and industry expertise of any of these individuals could seriously impede our success. moreover, the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish the red hat brand and adversely affect our business or stock price. a number of our key employees have become, or will soon become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly appreciated in value. if we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our ceo and key employees and attracting new key personnel, our business, its financial performance and our stock price may decline. our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and teamwork. as our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees. our subscription-based contract model may encounter customer resistance or we may experience a decline in the demand for our products. the subscription agreement used for many of our products, including red hat enterprise linux, requires customers to agree to a subscription for our services for each installed system on which they deploy our subscription based products. at the same time, the subscription agreement places no restriction on the customer right to redistribute the products. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, we may still encounter customer resistance to this distribution model or customers may fail to honor the terms of our subscription agreements. to the extent we are unsuccessful in promoting or defending this distribution model, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. additionally, as technologies and the markets for our enterprise offerings change, our subscription-based contract model may no longer meet the needs of our customers. if we are unable to adapt our contract model to changes in the marketplace, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. 22 table of contents if our current and future customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, our operating results may be adversely impacted. our customers may not renew their subscriptions for our service after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact, some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower priced edition of our services or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our operating results may be adversely impacted. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new products, adequately enhance our existing products or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our products. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our products or we would need to develop and enhance our products with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our product release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our products could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or shipping new or enhanced products could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those products and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make offerings compatible with our offerings, our software will cease to be competitive. our products will not be competitive unless third-party enterprise hardware and software offerings are compatible with our offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to the linux platform, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various hardware platforms by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our products will not be competitive and our sales growth will be adversely affected. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our products and damage our reputation. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. if we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our products but competing technology becomes more 23 table of contents widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our products may be reduced and that could harm our reputation, diminish the red hat brand and result in decreased revenue. because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry in the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for new competitors with greater resources than we have to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone can modify the existing software or develop new software that competes with existing open source software. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for new competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our solutions. for example, in october 2006 oracle corporation ( oracle ) announced plans to sell support for its version of the linux operating system. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. there has been a trend in industry consolidation in our markets for several years. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. for example, in early 2010, oracle corporation ( oracle ) completed its acquisition of sun microsystems, inc. ( sun ). oracle acquisition of sun creates a large, integrated supplier of enterprise software that may also provide hardware optimized for these software products. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry as well as maintaining a strong brand. investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services and technology infrastructure. if we are unable to ensure that our users and customers have a high quality experience with our products and services, then they may become dissatisfied and move to competitors products and services. in addition, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose customers. we believe that the brand identity that we have developed has contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing the red hat brand is important to expanding our customer base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brand, we may be required to make substantial investments that may or may not be successful. if we fail to promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. maintaining our brand will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high quality products and services. our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to improve the performance and reliability of our services. our failure to adapt to such changes would harm our business. in addition, the widespread adoption of other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. 24 table of contents moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and product road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. we must effectively develop, deliver and stimulate demand for new products and technologies in order to remain competitive. we operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements. to retain and grow our market share, we must continually introduce new and innovative offerings and technologies, enhance and adapt existing offerings and technologies and effectively stimulate customer demand for our new offerings. delays in developing, completing or shipping new or enhanced offerings and technologies could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings and technologies. the success of new and enhanced offering introductions depend on several factors, including our ability to develop and complete new products in a timely manner, successfully promote the offerings, manage the risks associated with the offerings, make sufficient resources available to support them and address any quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. our failure to deliver new and enhanced offerings and technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner and to effectively stimulate demand for them may harm our reputation as a leader in open source technology, diminish the red hat brand and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. our red hat enterprise virtualization offerings are based on an emerging technology area, and the potential market for these offerings remains uncertain. our red hat enterprise virtualization products and related services are based on an emerging technology area, the success of which will depend on the perceived technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the adoption of this technology, virtualization solutions and the acceptance of cloud computing environments. the market for these products and services remains uncertain. to the extent that the adoption of virtualization solutions occurs more slowly or less pervasively than we expect, the revenue growth associated with these products and services may be slower than currently expected, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if our growth rate slows, our stock price could be adversely impacted. as the markets for our products mature and the scale of our business increases, the rate of growth in our product sales will likely be lower than those we have experienced in earlier periods. in addition, to the extent that the adoption of red hat enterprise technologies occurs more slowly or is less pervasive than we expect, our revenue growth rates may slow materially or our revenue may decline substantially, which could adversely affect our stock price. security and privacy breaches may expose us to liability and harm our reputation and business. our security and testing measures may not prevent security breaches that could harm our business. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate technology or facility security measures or other factors may result in a compromise or breach of our systems and the data we process. any compromise of our systems or the data we process could harm our reputation or financial condition and, therefore, our business. in addition, a party who is able to circumvent our security measures or exploit inadequacies in our security measures, could, among other effects, misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations or expose customers to computer viruses or other disruptions or vulnerabilities. 25 table of contents actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by customers, partners or other third-parties, which could be material. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. we are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our reputation and business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to sell our products and services, support our partners, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer intrusions and viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by internal employees, contractors and third-parties. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation, business and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of system failures or to cover all contingencies. any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers and partners would create a large volume of user questions and complaints that would need to be addressed by our support personnel rather than by self-help. if our support personnel cannot meet this demand, customer and partner satisfaction levels may fall, which in turn could cause additional claims, reduced revenue or loss of customers. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our business could suffer. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurements regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we may be subject to qui tam litigation, the process by which a private individual sues or prosecutes on behalf of the government relating to government contracts and shares in the proceeds of any successful litigation or settlement, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business and affect our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. risks related to legal uncertainty if our products are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our products, replace components of our products, enter into license agreements with third parties and provide infringement indemnification. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our enterprise products are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the product consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the product so that it is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and indemnify them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying the commitments could 26 table of contents be costly and time consuming and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. we are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights because our products are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties, and an adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property could materially harm our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patent, copyright and trade secrets because our products are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. moreover, because the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined or readily determinable, patent applications in the united states are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing, we may be unable to assess the relevance of patents to our products, or take appropriate responsive action, in a timely or economic manner. we expect that our products could increasingly be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the size of our business and market share grow, the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. defending patent infringement, copyright infringement and/or trade secret claims, even claims without significant merit, can be expensive. the sco group, inc. ( sco ) as well as others have publicly alleged that linux may infringe certain third-party intellectual property rights. sco filed suit against ibm, alleging, among other things, that certain linux kernels wrongfully include sco intellectual property. uncertainty concerning allegations of this type, regardless of their merit, could adversely affect our reputation and business. if those asserting such claims were to prevail in this or other actions related to their claims regarding linux or other products, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. an adverse legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could harm our business and may do so materially. see legal proceedings . we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our products are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that open source components of our product offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, may have the effect of preventing us from distributing or developing all or a portion of our products. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may no longer be compatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from continuing to distribute the software code subject to the modified license. our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products and expose us to claims and litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and will continue to be found in our products after commencement of commercial shipments. this risk is exacerbated by the fact that much of the code in our 27 table of contents products is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them and may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. errors and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince commercial users of the benefits of linux-based operating systems and other open source software products. in addition, failures in our products could cause system or other failures for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our license agreements with our customers often contain provisions which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. in addition, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to this type of claim. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time consuming to defend and could materially harm our business. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third-parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our collection of trademarks is valuable and important to our business. the protective steps we have taken in the past have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of, our trademark rights. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in various countries around the world. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products and services. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy the red hat brand and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our products could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our product innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be adversely affected, which in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our products and further our research and development efforts, and could adversely affect our business. we are, and may become, involved in disputes and lawsuits that could have a material adverse affect on our performance or stock price. lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. these disputes and proceedings may involve significant expense and divert management attention. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. see legal proceedings for additional information on this and other certain matters that may affect our performance or stock price. our business is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws regarding data protection. our business is subject to federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. we post, on our website, our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. any 28 table of contents failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines and penalties, a governmental order requiring that we change our data practices could result, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. risks related to financial uncertainty our quarterly operating results may not be a reliable indicator of our future operating results. due to the unpredictability of the technology spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. if, among other considerations, our future operating results fall below expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. further, the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions. in addition, several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may lack the financial and operational resources needed to increase our market share and compete effectively. in the market for operating systems, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have. competitors, which offer hardware-independent multi-user operating systems for intel platforms and/or linux and unix-based operating systems, include microsoft corporation ( microsoft ), oracle, novell, inc. ( novell ), ibm, hp and sun. in the market for middleware offerings, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have. these competitors include, but 29 table of contents are not limited to, ibm, microsoft, oracle and sun, all of which offer broad portfolios of enterprise java and non-java middleware products. ibm and oracle bundle hardware and software for their customers, making it more difficult to penetrate these customer bases. in the market for virtualization offerings, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have. these competitors include, but are not limited to, vmware, inc. ( vmware ), microsoft, citrix systems, inc. ( citrix ), novell and oracle. in the market for services offerings, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have, including those that currently provide service and training related to the linux operating system as well as other operating systems, particularly unix-based operating systems, due to the fact that linux-and unix-based operating systems share many common features. these larger companies, including ibm, oracle, novell and hp, may be able to leverage their existing service organizations and provide higher levels of consulting and training on a more cost-effective basis than we can. we may lack the resources needed to compete successfully with our current competitors as well as potential new competitors. moreover, we compete in certain areas with our strategic partners and potential strategic partners, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for our products and services, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market opportunity. we may have to lower the prices of our products and services to stay competitive, which could affect our margins and financial condition. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, we may lose market share. industry consolidation may also effect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, which may have an adverse effect on our business. during fiscal 2007, several of our largest competitors made announcements relevant to markets in which we operate, including an announcement by oracle to offer linux support services and an announcement by novell regarding an agreement with microsoft to collaborate on technology, a cross covenant not to sue the other party customers for patent infringement and an agreement by microsoft to purchase and distribute coupons for suse linux maintenance and support. microsoft and novell announced an extension of their partnership and the purchase and distribution of an additional $100 million in coupons for suse linux by microsoft in august 2008. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented approximately 43.4% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2010, continue to expand. our international operations accounted for approximately 43.4% of total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2010. as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally-dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource or supplement general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize software products for a significant number of international markets, which may negatively affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business overseas that may negatively affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws; 30 table of contents difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners outside of the united states; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights overseas due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with the red hat brand; export control regulations could prevent us from shipping our products into and out of certain markets; changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers could affect the competitive pricing of our products and services and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets could result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenue associated with them. moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies and procedures or the law, could have a material adverse effect on our business. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. we are regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. while we endeavor to comply with all applicable tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law than we do or that we will comply in all respects with applicable tax laws, which could result in additional taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these audits will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period for which the review is made. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is 31 table of contents required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls or fail on an ongoing basis to properly address section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( sox ), including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet the section 404 requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our products and services, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of section 404 of sox, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial position of our business could be harmed; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and illiquidity risks and fluctuations in the market value of our investments and interest rates. these risks may result in an impairment in or the loss of all or a portion of the value of our investments, an inability to sell our investments and a decline in interest income. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. our portfolio as of february 28, 2010 consisted primarily of money market funds, u.s. government securities, certificates of deposit, agency securities, corporate securities and equity securities. although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the risks associated with our investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security or issuer, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value or become impaired, or that our interest income will not decline. we may be required to record impairment charges for other-than-temporary declines in fair market value in our investments. future fluctuations in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could record additional impairment charges and lose some or all of the principal value of investments in our portfolio. a total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. these investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose the value of our entire investment in these companies. 32 table of contents we are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the u.s. dollar will affect our net revenue, operating expenses and operating margins. we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. we use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to economically hedge u.s. dollar and other currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. if these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. for information regarding our hedging activity, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . 33 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of fixed-income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities which have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or perceived credit risk related to the securities issuers. a hypothetical one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a $7.1 million change in interest income on an annual basis. investment risk the fair market value of our investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage point increase in prevailing interest rates would result in an approximate $3.6 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 28, 2010. credit risk the fair market values of our investment portfolio and cash balances are exposed to counterparty credit risk. accordingly, while we periodically review our portfolio for risk mitigation, the principal values of our cash balances, money market accounts and investments in available-for-sale securities could suffer a loss of value. derivative instruments we transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. we sometimes enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. all derivative instruments are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their respective fair market values in accordance with fasb asc section 815 (formerly referenced as statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities). the company has elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify as an accounting hedge and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2010 was $8.4 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2010 was gross, a less than $0.1 million asset and a less than $0.1 million liability, and is recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets and accrued expenses, respectively on the consolidated balance sheets. the forward contracts generally expire within three months of the period ended february 28, 2010. the forward contracts will settle in japanese yen, swiss francs, swedish krona, czech koruna, canadian dollars and norwegian kroner. 60 table of contents the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2009 was $3.8 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2009 was gross, a $0.1 million liability and a less than $0.1 million asset, and is recorded in accrued expenses on the consolidated balance sheets. foreign currency risk approximately 43.4% of our revenue for the year ended february 28, 2010 was produced by sales outside the united states. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations decreases if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. impact on results of operations for the year ended february 28, 2010: using the average foreign currency exchange rates from our fiscal year ended february 28, 2009, our revenue and operating expenses from non-u.s. operations for the year ended february 28, 2010, would have been higher than we reported using the exchange rates from our fiscal year ended february 28, 2009 by approximately $0.6 million and $3.4 million, respectively, which would have resulted in income from operations being $2.8 million lower. for further discussion, see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 19 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. moreover, certain statements contained in this report and the documents incorporated by reference in this report, including in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that is not strictly a historical statement (for example, statements regarding current or future financial performance, management plans and objectives for future operations, product plans and performance, management expectations regarding market risk and market penetration, management assessment of market factors or strategies, objectives and plans of red hat and its partners). words such as anticipates, believes, expects, estimates, intends, plans, projects, and similar expressions, may also identify such forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of red hat future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause red hat actual results to differ materially from those found in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. these risks and uncertainties include the risks and cautionary statements detailed below and elsewhere in this report as well as in red hat other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ), copies of which may be accessed through the sec web site at http://www.sec.gov. readers are urged to carefully review these risks and cautionary statements. the forward-looking statements included in this report represent our views as of the date of this report. we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this report. risks related to business uncertainty ongoing uncertainty regarding the duration and extent of the recent economic downturn and in global economic and market conditions generally could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. economic weakness and uncertainty, tightened credit markets and constrained it spending from time to time contribute to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region, such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the united states and elsewhere. continuing uncertainty about future economic conditions may, among other things, negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases or lengthen our sales cycle. adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, these conditions may impact our investment portfolio, and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. also, these conditions may make it more difficult to forecast operating results. if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, companies may delay or reduce their it spending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 table of contents if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading hardware manufacturers, distributors, software vendors and enterprise solutions providers such as cisco systems, inc. ( cisco ), dell inc. ( dell ), fujitsu limited ( fujitsu ), hewlett-packard co. ( hp ), international business machines corporation ( ibm ), nec corporation ( nec ), oracle corporation ( oracle ), sap ag ( sap ) and others. these relationships allow us to offer our products and services to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms. in addition, our existing strategic relationships do not, and any future strategic relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. some of our channel partners offer competing products and services. as a result of these factors, many of the companies with which we have strategic alliances may choose to pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our products and services, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. we rely, to a significant degree, on indirect sales channels for the distribution of our products and services, and disruption within these channels could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we use a variety of different indirect distribution methods to sell our products and services, including channel partners such as oems, distributors and resellers. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of channel partners with whom we have no direct relationship. we rely, to a significant degree, on each of our channel partners to select, screen and maintain relationships with its distribution network and for the distribution of our products and services in a manner that is consistent with red hat quality standards. our channel partners may not distribute and market our products and services effectively. recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our enterprise technologies requires significant time and resources. if we fail to devote sufficient resources to support and expand our network of channel partners, our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, because we rely on channel partners for the indirect distribution of our enterprise technologies, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate end-users of our products, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our products, support ongoing customer requirements, estimate end-user demand, respond to evolving customer needs and obtain subscription renewals from end-users. if our indirect distribution channel is disrupted, we may be required to devote more resources to distribute our products directly and support our customers, which may not be as effective and could lead to higher costs, reduced revenue and growth that is slower than expected. we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, divert management attention, adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and dilute stockholder value. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions, and we may continue to do so in the future. acquisitions present significant challenges and risks, including: the difficulty of integrating the operations, systems, technology and personnel of the acquired business; the difficulty of gathering full information regarding a company or technology prior to an acquisition, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected tax implications and other adverse effects on our business; 20 table of contents the maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; the impairment of relationships with our employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel; the inability to maintain relationships with customers of the acquired business; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business; challenges in maintaining good and effective relations with existing business partners or of those of the acquired business, including as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape effected by the acquisition; the difficulty and expense of incorporating and further developing acquired technology and rights into our products and services and of maintaining quality standards consistent with our brand; the potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition; expenses related to the acquisition; claims and liabilities we may assume from the acquired business or technology, or that are otherwise related to the acquisition; operating expenses related to the acquired business or technology; the risk of entering new markets in which we have little or no experience; potential impairment of tangible assets and intangible assets and goodwill acquired in acquisitions; for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and the dilutive impact on our current stockholders percentage of ownership as a result of issuing shares of our common stock in connection with an acquisition or business combination. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we have pursued or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing such acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price. we could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution, or we may incur substantial debt. any acquisition may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, which may adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. for example, our total revenue increased from $748.2 million for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2010 to $909.3 million for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2011. moreover, the total number of our employees increased from over 3,200 as of february 28, 2010 to over 3,700 as of february 28, 2011 and is expected to generally increase in the foreseeable future. in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our product and service offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully offer products and services and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources and oversight from our senior management. 21 table of contents as we expand in international markets, these challenges increase as a result of the need to support a growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, dispute resolution systems, regulatory systems and commercial practices. as we grow, we must also continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise and manage sufficient personnel or develop management, or effectively manage and develop our controls and oversight functions and information systems to adequately manage our expansion effectively. if we are unable to adequately manage our growth and expansion, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we include software licensed from other parties in our enterprise technology offerings, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay software shipments. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties in our enterprise technology offerings. aspects of our business could be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were no longer available to us, no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms or changed in ways or included defects that made the third-party software unsuitable for our use. in these cases, we would be required to either redesign our products to function with software available from other parties, develop these components ourselves or eliminate the functionality, which could result in increased costs, the need to mitigate customer issues, delays in our product shipments and the release of new product offerings and limit the features available in our current or future products. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain capable management. our future success depends on the continued services and effectiveness of a number of key management personnel, including our ceo, who assumed his role on january 1, 2008. our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent the technology sector performs well and/or if companies with more generous compensation packages or greater perceived growth opportunities compete for the same personnel. in addition, historically we have used share-based compensation as a key component of our compensation packages. changes in the accounting for share-based compensation could adversely affect our earnings or force us to use more cash compensation to attract and retain capable personnel. if the price of our common stock falls, the value of our share-based awards to the recipient is reduced. such events, or if we are unable to secure shareholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for share-based compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key management personnel could hinder our strategic planning and execution. we depend on our key non-management employees, the loss of which could adversely affect our business or stock price and diminish the red hat brand. competition in our industry for qualified employees, especially technical employees, is intense and from time to time our competitors directly target our employees. the loss of the technical knowledge and industry expertise of any of these individuals could seriously impede our success. moreover, the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish the red hat brand and adversely affect our business or stock price. we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we may experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. a number of our key employees have become, or will soon become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly appreciated in value. if we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our key employees and attracting new key personnel, our business, its financial performance and our stock price may decline. 22 table of contents our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and teamwork. as our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees. our subscription-based contract model may encounter customer resistance or we may experience a decline in the demand for our products. we provide red hat enterprise technologies under annual or multi-year subscriptions. through the life of a subscription, a customer is entitled to specified levels of support as well as security updates, bug fixes, functionality enhancements and upgrades to the technology, when and if available, via the red hat customer portal. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, we may still encounter customer resistance to this distribution model or customers may fail to honor the terms of our subscription agreements. to the extent we are unsuccessful in promoting or defending this distribution model, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, our customers generally undertake a significant evaluation process that may result in a lengthy sales cycle. we spend substantial time, effort, and money on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. as technologies and the markets for our enterprise offerings change, our subscription-based contract model may no longer meet the needs of our customers. if we are unable to adapt our contract model to changes in the marketplace, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. if our current and future customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, our operating results may be adversely impacted. our customers may not renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact, some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower-priced edition of our offerings or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower-priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our operating results may be adversely impacted. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new products, adequately enhance our existing products or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our products. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our 23 table of contents products or we would need to develop and enhance our products with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our product release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our products could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or shipping new or enhanced products could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those products and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make offerings compatible with our offerings, our software may cease to be competitive and our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. the competitive position of our offerings is dependent on their compatibility with offerings of third-party enterprise hardware and software companies. to the extent that a software or hardware vendor might have or develop products that compete with ours, the vendor may have an incentive to seek to limit the performance, functionality or compatibility of our offerings when used with one or more of the vendor offerings. in addition, these vendors may fail to support or issue statements of compatibility or certification of our offerings when used with their offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to red hat enterprise linux and jboss enterprise middleware technologies, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various third-party hardware and software offerings by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware and software vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our products may not be competitive and our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our products and damage our reputation. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. if we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our products but competing technology becomes more widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our products may be reduced and that could harm our reputation, diminish the red hat brand and result in decreased revenue. because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry in the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone can modify and redistribute the existing open source software and use it to compete with us. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for new competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our solutions. for example, oracle corporation ( oracle ) has developed its own version of the linux operating system and sells support both for its version of the linux operating system and for red hat enterprise linux. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. 24 table of contents industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. there has been a trend in industry consolidation in our markets for several years. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. for example, in early 2010, oracle completed its acquisition of sun microsystems, inc. ( sun ). oracle acquisition of sun creates a large, integrated supplier of enterprise software that also provides hardware optimized for these software products. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry. investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements. we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services. if we are unable to ensure that our users and customers have a high-quality experience with our products and services, then they may become dissatisfied and move to competitors products and services. in addition, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose customers. our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to improve the performance and reliability of our services. our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business. in addition, the widespread adoption of other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. delays in developing, completing or shipping new or enhanced offerings and technologies could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings and technologies. the success of new and enhanced offering introductions depends on several factors, including our ability to develop and complete new products in a timely manner, successfully promote the offerings, manage the risks associated with the offerings, make sufficient resources available to support them and address any quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and product road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. our continued success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance a strong brand. we believe that the brand identity that we have developed has contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing the red hat brand is important to expanding our customer base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brand, we may be required to make substantial investments that may not be successful. if we fail to promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. maintaining our brand will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high-quality products and services. 25 table of contents our red hat enterprise virtualization and cloud computing offerings are based on emerging technologies, and the potential market for these offerings remains uncertain. our red hat enterprise virtualization and cloud computing product offerings and related services are based on emerging technologies, the success of which will depend on the perceived technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the adoption of these technologies. the market for these products and services remains uncertain. in addition, we may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends. to the extent that the adoption of virtualization and cloud computing offerings occurs more slowly or less pervasively than we expect, the revenue growth associated with these products and services may be slower than currently expected, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if our growth rate slows, our stock price could be adversely impacted. as the markets for our products mature and the scale of our business increases, the rate of growth in our product sales will likely be lower than those we have experienced in earlier periods. in addition, to the extent that the adoption of our products and services occurs more slowly or is less pervasive than we expect, our revenue growth rates may slow materially or our revenue may decline substantially, which could adversely affect our stock price. security and privacy breaches may expose us to liability and harm our reputation and business. our security and testing measures may not prevent security breaches that could harm our business. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate technology or facility security measures or other factors may result in a compromise or breach of our systems and the data we process. our security measures may be breached as a result of actions by third parties or employee error or malfeasance. any compromise of our systems or the data we process could harm our reputation or financial condition and, therefore, our business. in addition, a party who is able to circumvent our security measures or exploit inadequacies in our security measures, could, among other effects, misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in our operations or expose customers to computer viruses or other disruptions or vulnerabilities. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by customers, partners or other third parties, which could be material. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. we are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our reputation and business. we rely on our technology infrastructure for many functions, including selling our products and services, supporting our partners, fulfilling orders and billing, collecting and making payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer intrusions and viruses, software errors, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by internal employees, contractors and third parties. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation, business and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of system failures or to cover all contingencies. any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers and partners would create a large volume of user questions and complaints that would need to be addressed by our support personnel. if our support personnel cannot meet this demand, customer and partner satisfaction levels may fall, which in turn could cause additional claims, reduced revenue or loss of customers. 26 table of contents a decline in or reprioritization of funding in the u.s. government budget or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. we derive, and expect to continue to derive, a portion of our revenue from u.s. government agencies. concerns about increased deficit spending, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on u.s. government spending. the termination of, or delayed or reduced funding for, programs or contracts from which we derive revenue could adversely affect our business and financial performance. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our business could suffer. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurements regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we may be subject to qui tam litigation, the process by which a private individual sues or prosecutes on behalf of the government relating to government contracts and shares in the proceeds of any successful litigation or settlement, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business and affect our ability to compete for new contracts. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. risks related to legal uncertainty if our products are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our products, replace components of our products, enter into license agreements with third parties and provide infringement indemnification. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our enterprise products are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the product consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the product so that it is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and indemnify them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying the commitments could be costly and time consuming and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. we are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights because our products are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties, and an adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property could materially harm our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patent, copyright and trade secrets because our products are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. moreover, because the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined or readily determinable, patent applications in the united states are not publicly disclosed 27 table of contents at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing, we may be unable to assess the relevance of patents to our products, or take appropriate responsive action, in a timely or economic manner. these risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. in the past, our products have been subject to intellectual property infringement claims. we expect these claims to increase as the size of our business and market share grow, the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. defending patent infringement, copyright infringement and/or trade secret claims, even claims without significant merit, can be time consuming, expensive and divert the attention of technical and management personnel. an adverse legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could harm our business and may do so materially. see legal proceedings . our activities, or the activities of our partners, may violate anticorruption laws and regulations that apply to us. in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations that may apply to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, partners and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any violation of our policies and procedures could result in a violation of applicable law and adversely affect our business and financial performance. we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our products are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that open source components of our product offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, may have the effect of preventing us from distributing or developing all or a portion of our products. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may no longer be compatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from continuing to distribute the software code subject to the modified license. our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products and expose us to claims and litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and will continue to be found in our products after commencement of commercial shipments. this risk is exacerbated by the fact that much of the code in our products is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them and may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. errors and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince commercial users of the benefits of linux-based operating systems and other open source software products. in addition, failures in our products could cause system or other failures for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our agreements with our customers often 28 table of contents contain provisions which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. in addition, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to this type of claim. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time consuming to defend and could materially harm our business. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our collection of trademarks is valuable and important to our business. the protective steps we have taken in the past have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in various countries around the world. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to offer our products and services. we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy the red hat brand and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our products could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our product innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be adversely affected, which in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our products and further our research and development efforts, and could adversely affect our business. we are, and may become, involved in disputes and lawsuits that could have a material adverse affect on our performance or stock price. lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. these disputes and proceedings may involve significant expense and divert the attention of management and other employees. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. see legal proceedings for additional information on this and other certain matters that may affect our performance or stock price. our business is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws regarding data protection. our business is subject to federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. we post, on our website, our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines and penalties, a governmental order requiring that we change our data practices could result, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. 29 table of contents risks related to financial uncertainty our quarterly and annual operating results may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance. due to the unpredictability of the technology spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. if, among other considerations, our future financial performance falls below the expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. further, the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, news reports relating to trends in our markets, general economic conditions and other risks listed herein. in addition, several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may lack the financial and operational resources needed to increase our market share and compete effectively. in the market for operating systems, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have. competitors, which offer hardware-independent multi-user operating systems for intel platforms and/or linux and unix-based operating systems, include microsoft corporation ( microsoft ), oracle, novell, inc. ( novell ), ibm and hp. in the market for middleware offerings, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have. these competitors include, but are not limited to, ibm, microsoft and oracle, all of which offer broad portfolios of enterprise java and non-java middleware products. ibm and oracle bundle hardware and software for their customers, making it more difficult to penetrate these customer bases. in the market for virtualization and cloud offerings, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have. these competitors include, but are not limited to, vmware, microsoft, citrix systems, inc. and oracle. in the market for services offerings, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have, including those that currently provide service and training related to the linux operating system as well as other operating systems, particularly unix-based operating systems, due to the fact that linux-and unix-based operating systems share many common features. these larger companies, including ibm, oracle and hp, may be able to leverage their existing service organizations and provide higher levels of consulting and training on a more cost-effective basis than we can. 30 table of contents we may lack the resources needed to compete successfully with our current competitors as well as potential new competitors. moreover, we compete in certain areas with our strategic partners and potential strategic partners, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for our products and services, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market opportunity. we may have to lower the prices of our products and services to stay competitive, which could affect our margins and financial condition. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, we may lose market share. industry consolidation may also effect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, which may have an adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented approximately 43.7% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2011, continue to expand. our international operations accounted for approximately 43.7% of total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2011. as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource or supplement general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize software products for a significant number of international markets, which may negatively affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business overseas that may negatively affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; different pricing environments; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners outside of the united states; lower levels of availability or use of the internet, through which our software is often delivered; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights overseas due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, legal, cultural and other differences; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with the red hat brand; export control regulations could prevent us from shipping our products into and out of certain markets; public health risks and natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers could affect the competitive pricing of our products and services and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets could result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenue associated with them. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 31 table of contents we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet these requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial 32 table of contents processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our products and services, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial position of our business could be harmed; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects, including changes to previously filed financial statements, which could cause our stock to decline. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these principles are subject to interpretation by the sec and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. a change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and illiquidity risks and fluctuations in the market value of our investments and interest rates. these risks may result in an impairment in or the loss of all or a portion of the value of our investments, an inability to sell our investments or a decline in interest income. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. our portfolio as of february 28, 2011 consisted primarily of money market funds, u.s. government securities, certificates of deposit, agency securities, corporate securities and equity securities. although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the risks associated with our investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security or issuer, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value or become impaired, or that our interest income will not decline. we may be required to record impairment charges for other-than-temporary declines in fair market value in our investments. future fluctuations in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could record additional impairment charges and lose some or all of the principal value of investments in our portfolio. a total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. some of these investments may have been made to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. our investments in private companies are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose the value of our entire investment in these companies. we are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the u.s. dollar will affect our net revenue, operating expenses and operating margins. we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. as we expand international 33 table of contents operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations increases. we use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to economically hedge u.s. dollar and other currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. if these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. for information regarding our hedging activity, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more epidemics or natural disasters, such as the recent earthquakes in japan and related events, or geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers or our customers are located, could disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of our associates to reach or have transportation to our facilities directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of our customers, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of computer hardware and related components, the disruption or delay in the manufacture and transport of goods overseas, the disruption of utility services to our facilities or to suppliers, partners or customers, and disruption in our communications with our customers. 34 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of fixed-income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities which have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or perceived credit risk related to the securities issuers. a hypothetical one percentage point change in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in an $8.0 million change in annual interest income derived from investments in our portfolio as of february 28, 2011. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2011 and february 28, 2010, see note 2 and note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. investment risk the fair market value of our investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage point increase in prevailing interest rates would result in an approximate $10.2 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 28, 2011. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2011 and february 28, 2010, see note 2 and note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. credit risk the fair market values of our investment portfolio and cash balances are exposed to counterparty credit risk. accordingly, while we periodically review our portfolio in an effort to mitigate counterparty risk, the principal values of our cash balances, money market accounts and investments in available-for-sale securities could suffer a loss of value. foreign currency risk approximately 43.7% of our revenue for the year ended february 28, 2011 was produced by sales outside the united states. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations decreases if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the year ended february 28, 2010, our revenue from non-u.s. operations for the year ended february 28, 2011 would have been higher than we reported using the average exchange rates for the year ending february 28, 2011 by approximately $0.9 million. under the same assumptions, operating expenses would have been higher than we reported by approximately $2.5 million, which would have resulted in income from operations being lower by approximately $1.6 million. for further discussion, see note 2 and note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 61 table of contents derivative instruments we transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. we sometimes enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. all derivative instruments are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their respective fair market values in accordance with fasb asc section 815 (formerly referenced as statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities). the company has elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify its forward contracts for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2011 was $64.5 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2011 was a gross $0.4 million asset and a gross $0.1 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accrued expenses, respectively on the consolidated balance sheets. the forward contracts generally expire within three months of the period ended february 28, 2011. the forward contracts will settle in japanese yen, swiss francs, swedish krona, czech koruna, canadian dollars, singapore dollars and australian dollars. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2010 was $8.4 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2010 was, gross, a less than $0.1 million asset and a less than $0.1 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accrued expenses, respectively on the consolidated balance sheets. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. please carefully consider the following risks and cautionary statements. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. moreover, certain statements contained in this report and the documents incorporated by reference in this report, including in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that is not strictly a historical statement (for example, statements regarding current or future financial performance, management plans and objectives for future operations, product plans and performance, management expectations regarding market risk and market penetration, management assessment of market factors or strategies, objectives and plans of red hat and its partners). words such as anticipates, believes, expects, estimates, intends, plans, projects, and similar expressions, may also identify such forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of red hat future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause red hat actual results to differ materially from those found in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. these risks and uncertainties include the risks and cautionary statements detailed below and elsewhere in this report as well as in red hat other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ), copies of which may be accessed through the sec web site at http://www.sec.gov. readers are urged to carefully review these risks and cautionary statements. the forward-looking statements included in this report represent our views as of the date of this report. we specifically disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements in the future. these forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this report. risks related to business uncertainty the duration and extent of economic downturns, regional financial instability, and global economic and market conditions generally could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. economic weakness and uncertainty, tightened credit markets and constrained it spending from time to time contribute to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the specific customer segments and geographic regions in which we operate, which may result in reduced demand and increased price competition for our offerings. our operating results in one or more geographic regions or customer segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region or segment, such as the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union. continuing uncertainty about future economic conditions may, among other things, negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases or lengthen our sales cycle. adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, these conditions may impact our investment portfolio, and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. also, these conditions may make it more difficult to forecast operating results. if global economic conditions, or economic conditions in the united states, european union or in other key geographic regions or customer segments, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, current and prospective customers may delay or reduce their it spending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading hardware manufacturers, distributors, software vendors, 20 table of contents cloud providers and enterprise solutions providers such as amazon.com, inc. ( amazon ), cisco systems, inc. ( cisco ), dell inc. ( dell ), fujitsu limited, hewlett-packard co. ( hp ), international business machines corporation ( ibm ), nec corporation ( nec ), oracle corporation ( oracle ), sap ag ( sap ) and others. these relationships allow us to offer our technologies to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms. in addition, our existing strategic relationships do not, and any future strategic relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. some of our channel partners offer competing products and services. as a result of these factors, many of the companies with which we have strategic alliances may choose to pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our offerings, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our offerings effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. as our agreements with strategic partners terminate or expire, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. we rely, to a significant degree, on indirect sales channels for the distribution of our offerings, and disruption within these channels could adversely affect our business and operating results. we use a variety of different indirect distribution methods for our offerings, including channel partners such as oems, distributors and resellers. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of channel partners with whom we have no direct relationship. we rely, to a significant degree, on each of our channel partners to select, screen and maintain relationships with its distribution network and to distribute our offerings in a manner that is consistent with applicable regulatory requirements and red hat quality standards. our channel partners may not distribute and market our offerings effectively. recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our enterprise technologies requires significant time and resources. if we fail to devote sufficient resources to support and expand our network of channel partners, our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, because we rely on channel partners for the indirect distribution of our enterprise technologies, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate end-users of our technologies, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our software, support ongoing customer requirements, estimate end-user demand, respond to evolving customer needs and obtain subscription renewals from end-users. if our indirect distribution channel is disrupted, we may be required to devote more resources to distribute our offerings directly and support our customers, which may not be as effective and could lead to higher costs, reduced revenue and growth that is slower than expected. we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, divert management attention, adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows and dilute stockholder value. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions, and we may continue to do so in the future. these types of transactions can increase the expense of running our business and present significant challenges and risks, including: integrating the acquired business accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; gathering full information regarding a business or technology prior to a transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected tax implications and other adverse effects on our business; 21 table of contents maintaining or establishing acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; impairment of relationships with our employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel; inability to maintain relationships with customers of the acquired business; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; loss of key employees of the acquired business; maintaining good relationships with our existing business partners or those of the acquired business, including as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape affected by the transaction; incorporating and further developing acquired technology and rights into our offerings and maintaining quality standards consistent with our brands; failure to achieve the expected benefits of the transaction; expenses related to the transaction; claims and liabilities we may assume from the acquired business or technology, or that are otherwise related to the transaction; increased operating expenses related to the acquired business or technology; entering into new markets in which we have little or no experience or in which competitors may have stronger market positions; impairment of tangible assets and intangible assets and goodwill acquired in transactions; and for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing transactions that we have pursued or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing and completing such transactions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as payment and as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, or we may incur substantial debt. we could also issue additional securities as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. any transaction may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, or may take longer to do so than expected, which may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. for example, our total revenue increased from $909.3 million for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2011 to $1.13 billion for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2012. moreover, the total number of our employees increased from over 3,700 as of february 28, 2011 to over 4,500 as of february 29, 2012 and is expected to generally increase in the foreseeable future. in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully provide our offerings and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources, internal controls and oversight from our senior management. 22 table of contents as we expand in international markets, these challenges increase as a result of the need to support a growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, dispute resolution systems, regulatory systems and commercial practices. as we grow, we must also continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise and manage sufficient personnel or develop management, or effectively manage and develop our controls and oversight functions and information systems to adequately manage our growth effectively. if we are unable to adequately manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we include software licensed from other parties in our offerings, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay availability of our offerings. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties in our offerings. aspects of our business could be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were no longer available to us, no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms or changed in ways or included defects that made the third-party software unsuitable for our use. in these cases, we would be required to either redesign our technologies to function with software available from other parties, develop these components ourselves or eliminate the functionality, which could result in increased costs, the need to mitigate customer issues, delays in delivery of our offerings and the release of new offerings and limit the features available in our current or future offerings. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain capable management. our future success depends on the continued services and effectiveness of a number of key management personnel, including our ceo, who assumed his role on january 1, 2008. our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent the technology sector performs well and/or if companies with more generous compensation packages or greater perceived growth opportunities compete for the same personnel. in addition, historically we have used share-based compensation as a key component of our compensation packages. changes in the accounting for share-based compensation could adversely affect our earnings or force us to use more cash compensation to attract and retain capable personnel. if the price of our common stock falls, the value of our share-based awards to recipients is reduced. such events, or if we are unable to secure shareholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for share-based compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key management personnel could hinder our strategic planning and execution. we depend on our key non-management employees, the loss of which could adversely affect our business or stock price and diminish our brands. competition in our industry for qualified employees, especially technical employees, is intense and from time to time our competitors directly target our employees. the loss of the technical knowledge and industry expertise of any of these individuals could seriously impede our success. moreover, the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish our brands and adversely affect our business or stock price. we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we may experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. a number of our key employees have become, or will soon become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly appreciated in value. if we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our key employees and attracting new key personnel, our business, financial performance and stock price may decline. 23 table of contents our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and teamwork. as our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees. our subscription-based contract model may encounter customer resistance or we may experience a decline in the demand for our offerings. we provide red hat enterprise technologies under annual or multi-year subscriptions. through the life of a subscription, a customer is entitled to specified levels of support as well as security updates, fixes, functionality enhancements and upgrades to the technology, when and if available, via the red hat customer portal. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, we may still encounter customer resistance to this distribution model or customers may fail to honor the terms of our subscription agreements. to the extent we are unsuccessful in promoting or defending this distribution model, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, our customers generally undertake a significant evaluation process that may result in a lengthy sales cycle. we spend substantial time, effort, and money on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. as technologies and the markets for our enterprise offerings change, our subscription-based contract model may no longer meet the needs of our customers. if we are unable to adapt our contract model to changes in the marketplace, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. if our current and future customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, our operating results may be adversely impacted. our customers may not renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact, some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower-priced edition of our offerings or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower-priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our operating results may be adversely impacted. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new technologies, adequately enhance our existing technologies or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our enterprise technologies. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and 24 table of contents enhance our offerings or we would need to develop and enhance our offerings with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our technology release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our offerings could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make offerings compatible with our offerings, our software may cease to be competitive and our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. the competitive position of our offerings is dependent on their compatibility with offerings of third-party enterprise hardware and software companies. to the extent that a software or hardware vendor might have or develop products that compete with ours, the vendor may have an incentive to seek to limit the performance, functionality or compatibility of our offerings when used with one or more of the vendor offerings. in addition, these vendors may fail to support or issue statements of compatibility or certification of our offerings when used with their offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to our offerings, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various third-party hardware and software offerings by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware and software vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our offerings may not be competitive and our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our offerings, damage our reputation and adversely affect our financial performance. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. if we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our offerings but competing technology becomes more widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our offerings may be reduced and that could harm our reputation, diminish our brands and adversely affect our financial performance. because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry into the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone can modify and redistribute the existing open source software and use it to compete with us. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for new competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our solutions. for example, oracle has developed its own version of the linux operating system and sells support both for its version of the linux operating system and for red hat enterprise linux. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. 25 table of contents industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. there has been a trend of consolidation in the technology industry for several years. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. for example, in early 2010, oracle completed its acquisition of sun microsystems, inc. ( sun ). oracle acquisition of sun created a large, integrated supplier of enterprise software that also provides hardware optimized for these software products. we believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry. investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements. we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing offerings and introduce new high-quality offerings. if we are unable to ensure that our users and customers have a high-quality experience with our offerings, then they may become dissatisfied and move to competitors products and services. in addition, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our offerings on a timely basis, we may lose customers. our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to improve the performance and reliability of our services. our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business. in addition, the widespread adoption of other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our offerings or infrastructure. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings and technologies could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings and technologies. the success of new and enhanced offering introductions depends on several factors, including our ability to develop and complete new offerings in a timely manner, successfully promote the offerings, manage the risks associated with the offerings, make sufficient resources available to support them and address any quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and technology road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our continued success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance strong brands. we believe that the brand identities that we have developed have contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to expanding our customer base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brands, we may be required to make substantial investments that may not be successful. if we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. maintaining our brands will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high-quality offerings. 26 table of contents our red hat virtualization, cloud computing and storage offerings are based on emerging technologies and business models, and the potential market for these offerings remains uncertain. our red hat virtualization, cloud computing and storage offerings are based on emerging technologies and business models, the success of which will depend on the perceived technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the adoption of these technologies. the cloud computing, storage and virtualization market segments are rapidly evolving, and we expect competition to remain intense. in addition, we may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends. adoption of virtualization and cloud computing offerings may occur more slowly or less pervasively than we expect and the revenue growth associated with these offerings may be slower than currently expected. moreover, even if virtualization and cloud computing are adopted widely by enterprises, our offerings in these areas may not attract a sufficient number of users or generate attractive financial results. in either case, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. if our growth rate slows, our stock price could be adversely impacted. as the markets for our offerings mature and the scale of our business increases, our rate of revenue growth will likely be lower than the growth rates we experienced in earlier periods. in addition, to the extent that the adoption of our offerings occurs more slowly or is less pervasive than we expect, our revenue growth rates may slow materially or our revenue may decline substantially, which could adversely affect our stock price. security and privacy breaches may expose us to liability and harm our reputation and business. our business involves the production and distribution of enterprise software technologies. as part of our business we receive and process information about our employees, customers and partners, and we may store (or contract with third parties to store) our customers data. while we take security and testing measures relating to our offerings and operations, those measures may not prevent security breaches that could harm our business. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate technology or facility security measures or other factors may result in a compromise or breach of our systems and the data we store and process. our security measures may be breached as a result of actions by third parties or employee error or malfeasance. a party who is able to circumvent our security measures or exploit inadequacies in our security measures, could, among other things, misappropriate proprietary information (including information about our employees, customers and partners and our customers information), cause the loss or disclosure of some or all of this information, cause interruptions in our or our customers operations or expose customers (and their customers) to computer viruses or other disruptions or vulnerabilities. any compromise of our systems or the data we store or process could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings, damage our reputation, disrupt our business, lead to legal liability and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. a compromise to our systems could remain undetected for an extended period of time, exacerbating the impact of that compromise. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by customers, partners or other third parties, which could be material. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. we are vulnerable to technology infrastructure failures, which could harm our reputation and business. we rely on our technology infrastructure for many functions, including selling our offerings, supporting our partners, fulfilling orders and billing, collecting and making payments. we also rely on the technology infrastructure of third parties to provide some of our offerings. this technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer intrusions and viruses, software errors, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a 27 table of contents significant number of the systems making up this infrastructure are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. this technology infrastructure is also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by internal employees, contractors and third parties. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services and loss of data, which could harm our reputation, business and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of technology infrastructure failures or to cover all contingencies. any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers and partners would create a large volume of questions and complaints that would need to be addressed by our support personnel. if our support personnel cannot meet this demand, customer and partner satisfaction levels may fall, which in turn could cause additional claims, reduced revenue or loss of customers. a decline in or reprioritization of funding in the u.s. government budget or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. we derive, and expect to continue to derive, a portion of our revenue from u.s. government agencies. concerns about increased deficit spending, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on u.s. government spending. the termination of, or delayed or reduced funding for, programs or contracts from which we derive revenue could adversely affect our business and financial performance. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our business could suffer. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurements regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we may be subject to qui tam litigation, the process by which a private individual sues or prosecutes on behalf of the government relating to government contracts and shares in the proceeds of any successful litigation or settlement, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business and affect our ability to compete for new contracts. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. risks related to legal uncertainty if our technologies are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our offerings, replace components of our offerings, enter into license agreements with third parties and provide infringement indemnification. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our offerings are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the technology consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the technology so that it is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and indemnify them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying the commitments could be costly and time consuming and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. 28 table of contents we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights because our technologies are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties, and an adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property could materially harm our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patent, copyright and trade secrets because our technologies are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. moreover, because the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined or readily determinable, patent applications in the united states are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing, we may be unable to assess the relevance of patents to our technologies, or take appropriate responsive action, in a timely or economic manner. our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may increase as a result of acquisitions. in addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. these risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. in the past, our technologies have been subject to intellectual property infringement claims. we expect these claims to increase as the size of our business and market share grow, the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products in different portions of the industry overlap. we may not be able to accurately assess the risk related to these suits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. defending patent and other intellectual property claims, even claims without significant merit, can be time consuming, costly and can divert the attention of technical and management personnel. we may receive unfavorable preliminary or interim rulings in the course of litigation, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. we may decide to settle certain lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease offering certain of our technologies or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue offering technologies found to be in violation of a third party rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. as a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or practices or discontinue the practices. the development of alternative non-infringing technology or practices could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. an adverse legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could adversely affect our business and may do so materially. see legal proceedings . our activities, or the activities of our partners, may violate anticorruption laws and regulations that apply to us. in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations that may apply to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, partners and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any violation of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our technologies are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed 29 table of contents under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that open source components of our offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, may have the effect of preventing us from distributing or developing all or a portion of our offerings. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may no longer be compatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from continuing to distribute the software code subject to the modified license. our offerings may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our enterprise technologies and expose us to claims and litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and will continue to be found in our enterprise technologies after deployment. this risk is exacerbated by the fact that much of the code in our technologies is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them and may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. errors and failures in our offerings could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our enterprise technologies, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince enterprise users of the benefits of our technologies. in addition, errors in our technologies could cause system failures, loss of data or other adverse effects for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our agreements with our customers often contain provisions which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. in addition, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to this type of claim. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time consuming to defend and could materially harm our business. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our collection of trademarks is valuable and important to our business. the protective steps we have taken in the past have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in various countries around the world. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to distribute our offerings. we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy one or more of our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our technologies could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our technology innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be adversely affected, which in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our technologies and further our research and development efforts, and could adversely affect our business. 30 table of contents we are, and may become, involved in disputes and lawsuits that could have a material adverse effect on our performance or stock price. lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. these disputes and proceedings may involve significant expense and divert the attention of management and other employees. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. see legal proceedings for additional information on this and other certain matters that may affect our performance or stock price. our business is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws regarding data privacy and protection. our business is subject to federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. we post, on our website, our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. as internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. increased regulation in the area of data privacy and protection, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing, protection or use of information could affect our ability to use and share data, or the adoption of our cloud offerings by customers. any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines and penalties, a governmental order requiring that we change our data practices could result, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. risks related to financial uncertainty our quarterly and annual operating results may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance. due to the unpredictability of the technology spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. if, among other considerations, our future financial performance falls below the expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. further, the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, news reports relating to trends in our markets, general economic conditions and other risks listed herein. 31 table of contents in addition, several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may lack the financial and operational resources needed to increase our market share and compete effectively. in the market for operating systems, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have. competitors, which offer hardware-independent multi-user operating systems for intel platforms and/or linux and unix-based operating systems, include hp, ibm, microsoft corporation ( microsoft ), oracle and unisys corporation. in the market for middleware offerings, we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have. these competitors include, but are not limited to, ibm, microsoft, oracle and vmware, inc. ( vmware ) all of which offer portfolios of enterprise java and non-java middleware products. ibm and oracle often bundle hardware and software for their customers, making it more difficult to penetrate these customer bases. in the market for virtualization we face significant competition from larger companies with greater financial, operational and technical resources and name recognition than we have. these competitors include, but are not limited to, attachmate corporation, citrix systems, inc., microsoft, oracle and vmware. we face competition in the market for services related to the deployment of enterprise technologies and the development and integration of applications. our competitors in the market include accenture plc, hp, ibm and tata consultancy services limited, as well as other technology consulting companies. some of these competitors may be able to leverage their existing service organizations and provide higher levels of consulting and training on a more cost-effective basis than we can. with our cloud technologies we compete with companies that provide tools for enterprises to create private clouds, such as microsoft and vmware, as well as with companies that provide public clouds, such as amazon, google inc., microsoft and rackspace hosting, inc. with our storage offerings we compete with companies that provide software-based storage products, such as emc corporation and netapp, inc. we may lack the resources needed to compete successfully with our current competitors as well as potential new competitors. moreover, we compete in certain areas with our strategic partners and potential strategic partners, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for our offerings, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market opportunity. we may have to lower the prices of our offerings to stay competitive, which could affect our margins and financial condition. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, we may lose market share. industry consolidation may also effect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, which may have an adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented approximately 45.1% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2012, continue to expand. our international operations accounted for approximately 45.1% of total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2012. as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and 32 table of contents administering a globally dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource or supplement general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize offerings for a significant number of international markets, which may negatively affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business overseas that may negatively affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; pricing environments; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners outside of the united states; lower levels of availability or use of the internet, through which our software is often delivered; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights overseas due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, legal, cultural and other differences; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with the our brands; export and import laws and regulations could prevent us from delivering our offerings into and from certain countries; public health risks and natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers could affect the competitive pricing of our offerings and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets could result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenue associated with them. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from our red hat enterprise linux platform. during our fiscal year ended february 29, 2012, a substantial portion of our subscription revenues was derived from our red hat enterprise linux technologies. although we are continuing to develop other offerings, we expect that revenue from red hat enterprise linux will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. declines and variability in demand for red hat enterprise linux could occur as a result of: competitive products and pricing; failure to release new or enhanced versions of red hat enterprise linux on a timely basis, or at all; technological change that we are unable to address with red hat enterprise linux; or future economic conditions. 33 table of contents additionally, as more customers and potential customers virtualize their data centers and move computing projects to cloud environments, demand for operating systems such as red hat enterprise linux may decline. due to the concentration of our revenues from red hat enterprise linux, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected by a decline in demand for red hat enterprise linux. we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flows. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined resulting in an adverse impact on our operating results. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with 34 table of contents respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet these requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our offerings, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial position of our business could be harmed; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects, including changes to previously filed financial statements, which could cause our stock to decline. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these principles are subject to interpretation by the sec and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. a change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and illiquidity risks and fluctuations in the market value of our investments and interest rates. these risks may result in an impairment of or the loss of all or a portion of the value of our investments, an inability to sell our investments or a decline in interest income. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. our portfolio as of february 29, 2012 consisted primarily of money market funds, u.s. government and agency securities, german sovereign securities, certificates of deposit, corporate securities and equity securities. although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the risks associated with our investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security or issuer, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value or become impaired, or that our interest income will not decline. a significant part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government and agency securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a default or downgrade of u.s. government or agency debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. we may be required to record impairment charges for other-than-temporary declines in fair market value in our investments. future fluctuations in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could record additional impairment charges and lose some or all of the principal value of investments in our portfolio. a total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. some of these investments may have been made to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. our 35 table of contents investments in private companies are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose the value of our entire investment in these companies. we are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the u.s. dollar will affect our net revenue, operating expenses and operating margins. we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. as we expand international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations increases. we use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to economically hedge u.s. dollar and other currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. if these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. for information regarding our hedging activity, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more epidemics or natural disasters, such as the earthquakes in japan and related events, or geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks, in a country in which we operate or in which technology industry suppliers or our customers are located, could disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of our associates to reach or have transportation to our facilities directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of our customers, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of computer hardware and related components, the disruption or delay in the manufacture and transport of goods overseas, the disruption of utility services to our facilities or to suppliers, partners or customers, and disruption in our communications with our customers. 36 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of fixed-income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities which have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or perceived credit risk related to the securities issuers. a hypothetical one percentage point change in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in an $8.5 million change in annual interest income derived from investments in our portfolio as of february 29, 2012. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 29, 2012 and february 28, 2011, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 18 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to the consolidated financial statements. investment risk the fair market value of our investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage change in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in an approximate $11.0 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 29, 2012. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 29, 2012 and february 28, 2011, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 18 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to the consolidated financial statements. credit risk the fair market values of our investment portfolio and cash balances are exposed to counterparty credit risk. accordingly, while we periodically review our portfolio in an effort to mitigate counterparty risk, the principal values of our cash balances, money market accounts and investments in available-for-sale securities could suffer a loss of value. foreign currency risk approximately 45.1% of our revenue for the year ended february 29, 2012 was produced by sales outside the united states. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. the statements of operations of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. thus, to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations decreases if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. using the average foreign currency exchange rates from our prior fiscal year ended february 28, 2011, our revenue and operating expenses from non-u.s. operations for the year ended february 29, 2012 would have been 64 table of contents lower than we reported using the average exchange rates for our current fiscal year ending february 29, 2012 by approximately $26.4 million and $17.5 million, respectively, which would have resulted in income from operations being lower by $8.9 million. derivative instruments we transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. we sometimes enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. all derivative instruments are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their respective fair market values in accordance with fasb asc section 815 (formerly referenced as statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities). the company has elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify its forward contracts for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. for further discussion related to our management of foreign currency risk see note 10 derivative instruments to the consolidated financial statements. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 29, 2012 was $59.7 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 29, 2012 was a gross $0.1 million asset and a gross $0.5 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accrued expenses, respectively on the consolidated balance sheets. the forward contracts generally expire within three months of the period ended february 29, 2012. the forward contracts will settle in australian dollars, canadian dollars, czech koruna, euros, israeli shekels, japanese yen, mexican pesos, new zealand dollars, norwegian krona, singapore dollars, swedish krona, swiss francs and u.s. dollars. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2011 was $64.5 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2011 was a gross $0.4 million asset and a gross $0.1 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accrued expenses, respectively on the consolidated balance sheets. 65 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. please carefully consider the following risks and cautionary statements. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. risks related to business uncertainty the duration and extent of economic downturns, regional financial instability, and economic and market conditions generally could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. economic weakness and uncertainty, tightened credit markets and constrained it spending from time to time contribute to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the specific customer segments and geographic regions in which we operate, which may result in reduced demand and increased price competition for our offerings. our operating results in one or more geographic regions or customer segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region or segment. continuing uncertainty about future economic conditions may, among other things, negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases or lengthen our sales cycle. adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, these conditions may impact our investment portfolio, and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. also, these conditions may make it more difficult to forecast operating results. if global economic conditions, or economic conditions in the united states, europe, asia or in other key geographic regions or customer segments, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, current and prospective customers may delay or reduce their it spending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading hardware manufacturers, software vendors, cloud providers and enterprise solutions providers such as amazon.com, inc. ( amazon ), cisco systems, inc., dell inc., fujitsu limited, hewlett-packard co. ( hp ), international business machines corporation ( ibm ), nec corporation, oracle corporation ( oracle ), sap ag and others. many of these strategic partners have engineered and certified that their products and services run on or with our offerings, and in some cases have built their products using our offerings. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms in the future. some of our strategic partners offer competing products and services. as a result of these factors, many of the companies with which we have strategic alliances may choose to pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our offerings, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our offerings effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. as our agreements with strategic partners terminate or expire, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. we rely, to a significant degree, on indirect sales channels for the distribution of our offerings, and disruption within these channels could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we use a variety of different indirect distribution methods for our offerings, including channel partners such as oems, distributors and resellers. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of 17 table of contents channel partners with whom we have no direct relationship. these relationships allow us to offer our technologies to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we rely, to a significant degree, on each of our channel partners to select, screen and maintain relationships with its distribution network and to distribute our offerings in a manner that is consistent with applicable regulatory requirements and red hat quality standards. our channel partners may offer their own products and services that are competitive with our offerings or may not distribute and market our offerings effectively. moreover, our existing channel partner relationships do not, and any future channel partner relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. in addition, if a channel partner is acquired by a competitor or its business units are reorganized or divested, our revenues derived from that partner may be adversely impacted. recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our enterprise technologies requires significant time and resources. if we fail to devote sufficient resources to support and expand our network of channel partners, our business may be adversely affected. in addition, because we rely on channel partners for the indirect distribution of our enterprise technologies, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate end-users of our technologies, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our software, support ongoing customer requirements, estimate end-user demand, respond to evolving customer needs and obtain subscription renewals from end-users. if our indirect distribution channel is disrupted, we may be required to devote more resources to distribute our offerings directly and support our customers, which may not be as effective and could lead to higher costs, reduced revenue and growth that is slower than expected. we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, divert management attention, adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows and dilute stockholder value. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions, and we may continue to do so in the future. these types of transactions can increase the expense of running our business and present significant challenges and risks, including: integrating the acquired business accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; gathering full information regarding a business or technology prior to a transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected tax implications and other adverse effects on our business; increased operating expenses related to the acquired business or technology; maintaining or establishing acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; impairment of relationships with our employees, partners or customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel, products or technology or as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape affected by the transaction; maintaining good relationships with customers or business partners of the acquired business; effective evaluation of talent at an acquired business or cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired business into our organization; 18 table of contents loss of key employees of the acquired business; incorporating and further developing acquired products or technology into our offerings and maintaining quality standards consistent with our brands; achieving the expected benefits of the transaction; expenses related to the transaction; claims and liabilities we may assume from the acquired business or technology, or that are otherwise related to the transaction; entering into new markets in which we have little or no experience or in which competitors may have stronger market positions; impairment of intangible assets and goodwill acquired in transactions; and for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing transactions that we have pursued or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing and completing such transactions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, or we may incur substantial debt. we could also issue additional securities as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. any transaction may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, or may take longer to do so than expected, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. for example, our total revenue increased from $1.13 billion for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2012 to $1.33 billion for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2013. moreover, the total number of our employees increased from over 4,500 as of february 29, 2012 to approximately 5,600 as of february 28, 2013 and is expected to generally increase in the foreseeable future. in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully provide our offerings and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources, internal controls and oversight from our senior management. as we expand in international markets, these challenges increase as a result of the need to support a growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, dispute resolution systems, regulatory systems and commercial practices. as we grow, we must also continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise and manage sufficient personnel or develop management, or effectively manage and develop our controls and oversight functions and information systems to adequately manage our growth effectively. if we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. there has been a trend of consolidation in the technology industry. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry. for example, as the 19 table of contents computing, networking, storage, and software technologies that comprise the enterprise data center converge, many companies seek to position themselves as key or single-source vendors providing end-to-end technology solutions for the data center. also, some of our current and potential competitors have made acquisitions or announced new strategic alliances designed to position them as a key or single-source vendor. as a result of these developments, we face greater competition, including competition from entities that are among our key business partners. this increased competition could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry into the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone may modify and redistribute the existing open source software and use it to compete with us. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our offerings. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain capable management. our future success depends on the continued services and effectiveness of a number of key management personnel, including our ceo. the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, could adversely affect our business or stock price. our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent the technology sector performs well and/or if companies with more generous compensation packages or greater perceived growth opportunities compete for the same personnel. in addition, historically we have used share-based compensation as a key component of our compensation packages. changes in the accounting for share-based compensation could adversely affect our earnings or force us to use more cash compensation to attract and retain capable personnel. if the price of our common stock falls, the value of our share-based awards to recipients is reduced. such events, or if we are unable to secure shareholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for share-based compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key management personnel could hinder our strategic planning and execution. we depend on our key non-management employees, the loss of which could adversely affect our business or diminish our brands. competition in our industry for qualified employees, especially technical employees, is intense and from time to time our competitors directly target our employees. the loss of key employees could hinder our influence in open source projects and seriously impede our success. moreover, the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish our brands. we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we may experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. 20 table of contents a number of our key employees have become, or will become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly appreciated in value. if we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our key employees and attracting new key personnel, our business, financial performance, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and collaboration fostered by our culture, and our business may be adversely affected. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and collaboration. as our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain these beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees. our subscription-based business model may encounter customer resistance or we may experience a decline in the demand for our offerings. we provide red hat enterprise technologies under annual or multi-year subscriptions. a subscription generally entitles a customer to, among other things, a specified level of support, as well as new versions of the software, security updates, fixes, functionality enhancements and upgrades to the technology, if and when available, and compatibility with an ecosystem of certified hardware and software applications. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, we may still encounter customer resistance to this distribution model or customers may fail to honor the terms of our subscription agreements. to the extent we are unsuccessful in promoting or defending this distribution model, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. in addition, our customers generally undertake a significant evaluation process that may result in a lengthy sales cycle. we spend substantial time, effort, and money on our sales efforts, including developing and implementing appropriate go-to-market strategies and training our sales force and channel partners in order to effectively market new offerings, without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. as technologies and the markets for our enterprise offerings change, our subscription-based business model may no longer meet the needs of our customers. for example, a business model based on annual or multi-year subscriptions may no longer be competitive in an environment where disruptive technologies (such as virtualization and cloud) enable customers to consume computing resources on an hourly basis or for free. an increased focus on developing and providing virtualization, storage and cloud computing offerings may require a greater focus on marketing more holistic solutions, rather than individual offerings. consequently, we may need to develop appropriate marketing and pricing strategies for our offerings, our customers purchasing decisions may become more complex and require additional levels of approval and the duration of sales cycles for our offerings may increase. if we are unable to adapt our business model to changes in the marketplace, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. if our customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, our business, financial results, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. our customers may not renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact, some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower-priced edition of our 21 table of contents offerings or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower-priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make their products and services compatible with our offerings, our software may cease to be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. the competitive position of our offerings is dependent on their compatibility with products and services of third-party enterprise hardware and software companies. to the extent that a software or hardware vendor might have or develop products and services that compete with ours, the vendor may have an incentive to seek to limit the performance, functionality or compatibility of our offerings when used with one or more of the vendor offerings. in addition, these vendors may fail to support or issue statements of compatibility or certification of our offerings when used with their offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to our offerings, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various third-party hardware and software offerings by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware and software vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our offerings may not be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new technologies, adequately enhance our existing technologies or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our enterprise technologies. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our offerings or we would need to develop and enhance our offerings with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our technology release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our offerings could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry. investment in new offerings, business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly 22 table of contents changing technologies, to adapt our offerings to evolving industry standards, to predict user preferences and industry changes and to improve the performance and reliability of our offerings. our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business. in addition, the widespread adoption of other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our offerings or infrastructure. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings and technologies could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings and technologies. the success of new and enhanced offering introductions depends on several factors, including our ability to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings in a timely manner, successfully promote the offerings, manage the risks associated with the offerings, make sufficient resources available to support the offerings and address any quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and technology road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our offerings may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our enterprise technologies and expose us to claims and litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and may continue to be found in our offerings after deployment. this risk is increased by the fact that much of the code in our offerings is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them and may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. errors and failures in our offerings could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our enterprise technologies, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince enterprise users of the benefits of our technologies. in addition, errors in our technologies could cause system failures, loss of data or other adverse effects for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our agreements with our customers often contain provisions which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. in addition, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to this type of claim. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time consuming to defend and could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, operating results and cash flows. our virtualization, storage and cloud computing offerings are based on emerging technologies and business models, and the potential market for these offerings remains uncertain. our virtualization, storage and cloud computing offerings are based on emerging technologies and business models, the success of which will depend on the perceived technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the adoption of these technologies. the virtualization, storage and cloud computing technologies are rapidly evolving. we expect competition to remain intense and, as with many emerging it sectors, these technologies may be subject to a first mover effect pursuant to which certain product offerings rapidly capture a significant portion of market share and developer attention. moreover, we may make errors in reacting to relevant business trends and predicting which technologies are successful or otherwise develop into industry standards. adoption of virtualization, storage and cloud computing offerings may occur more slowly or less pervasively than we expect and the revenue growth associated with these offerings may be slower than currently 23 table of contents expected. moreover, even if virtualization, storage and cloud computing are adopted widely by enterprises, our offerings in these areas may not attract a sufficient number of users or generate attractive financial results. we incur expenses associated with these offerings in advance of our ability to generate associated revenues. demand for our virtualization, storage and cloud computing offerings may unfavorably impact demand for our other products and services including software subscriptions and related professional services. if the market for our virtualization, storage and cloud computing offerings fails to develop adequately it could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our continued success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance strong brands. we believe that the brand identities that we have developed have contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to expanding our customer base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brands, we may be required to make substantial investments that may not be successful. maintaining our brands will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high-quality offerings. if we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if our growth rate slows, our stock price could be adversely affected. as the markets for our offerings mature and the scale of our business increases, our rate of revenue growth will likely be lower than the growth rates we experienced in earlier periods. in addition, to the extent that the adoption of our offerings occurs more slowly or is less pervasive than we expect, our revenue growth rates may slow or our revenue may decline, which could adversely affect our stock price. security breaches and data loss may expose us to liability, harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. our business involves the production and distribution of enterprise software technologies, as well as hosting applications. as part of our business we receive and process information about our employees, customers and partners, and we may store and process (or contract with third parties to store and process) our customers data. while we take security and testing measures relating to our offerings and operations, those measures may not prevent security breaches and data loss that could harm our business. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate technology or facility security measures or other factors may result in data loss or a compromise or breach of our systems and the data we store and process (or the systems and data stored and processed by third parties on our behalf). these security measures may be breached or data lost as a result of actions by third parties or employee error or malfeasance. a party who is able to circumvent security measures or exploit inadequacies in security measures, could, among other things, misappropriate proprietary information (including information about our employees, customers and partners and our customers information), cause the loss or disclosure of some or all of this information, cause interruptions in our or our customers operations or expose customers (and their customers) to computer viruses or other disruptions or vulnerabilities. a compromise to these systems could remain undetected for an extended period of time, exacerbating the impact of that compromise. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by customers, partners or other third parties, which could be material. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. any loss of data or compromise of our systems or the data we store or process (or the systems and data stored and processed by third parties on our behalf) could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings, damage our reputation, lead to legal liability and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 24 table of contents we are vulnerable to technology infrastructure failures, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, and the technology infrastructure of third parties, for many functions, including selling our offerings, supporting our partners, fulfilling orders and billing, collecting and making payments. this technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer intrusions and viruses, software errors, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of the systems making up this infrastructure are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for every eventuality. this technology infrastructure may fail or be vulnerable to damage or interruption because of actions by third parties or employee error or malfeasance. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of technology infrastructure failures or to cover all contingencies. any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers and partners would create a large volume of questions and complaints that would need to be addressed by our support personnel. if our support personnel cannot meet this demand, customer and partner satisfaction levels may fall, which in turn could cause additional claims, reduced revenue or loss of customers. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, a loss of data, loss of confidence in the stability and reliability of our offerings, damage to our reputation, legal liability, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows interruptions. a decline in or reprioritization of funding in the u.s. government budget or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we derive, and expect to continue to derive, a portion of our revenue from u.s. government agencies. government deficit reduction and austerity measures, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on u.s. government spending. the termination of, or delayed or reduced funding for, government-sponsored programs and contracts from which we derive revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our offerings, damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. if we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our offerings but competing technology becomes more widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our offerings may be reduced and that could harm our reputation, diminish our brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we include software licensed from other parties in our offerings, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay availability of our offerings. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties in our offerings. aspects of our business could be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were no longer available to us, no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms or changed in ways or included defects that made the third-party software unsuitable for our use. in these cases, we would be required to either redesign our technologies to function with software available from other parties, develop these components ourselves or eliminate the functionality, which could result in increased costs, the need to mitigate customer issues, delays in delivery of our offerings and the release of new offerings and limit the features available in our current or future offerings. 25 table of contents risks related to legal uncertainty if our technologies are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our offerings, replace components of our offerings, enter into license agreements with third parties and provide infringement indemnification. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our offerings are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the technology consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the technology so that it is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and indemnify them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying the commitments could be costly and time consuming and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights because our technologies are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties, and an adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property could adversely affect our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patent, copyright and trade secrets because our technologies are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. moreover, because the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined or readily determinable, patent applications in the united states are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing, among other concerns, we are unlikely to be able to assess adequately the relevance of patents to our technologies, and may be unable to take appropriate responsive action, in a timely or economic manner. our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may increase as a result of acquisitions. in addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. in the past, our technologies have been subject to intellectual property infringement claims. some of these claims have been brought by entities that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement. as these entities do not have operating businesses of their own and therefore have limited risk of counterclaims for damages or injunctive relief, it may be difficult to deter them from bringing intellectual property infringement claims. we expect to face the possibility of more intellectual property infringement claims as our prominence increases, business activities expand, market share and revenues grow, the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products in different portions of the industry overlap. we may not be able to accurately assess the risk related to these suits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. defending patent and other intellectual property claims, even claims without significant merit, can be time consuming, costly and can divert the attention of technical and management personnel. we may receive unfavorable preliminary or interim rulings in the course of litigation, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. we may decide to settle certain lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease offering certain of our technologies or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue offering technologies found to be in violation of a third party rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our 26 table of contents operating costs and expenses. as a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or practices or discontinue the practices. the development of alternative non-infringing technology or practices could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. an adverse legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see legal proceedings for additional information. our activities, or the activities of our partners, may violate anti-corruption laws and regulations that apply to us. in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations that may apply to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to help promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, partners and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any violation of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our technologies are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that open source components of our offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, may have the effect of preventing us from distributing or developing all or a portion of our offerings. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may no longer be compatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from continuing to distribute the software code subject to the modified license. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our collection of trademarks is valuable and important to our business. the protective steps we have taken in the past have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in various countries around the world. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to distribute our offerings. we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy one or more of our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. 27 table of contents efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our technologies could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our technology innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be adversely affected, which in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our technologies and further our research and development efforts, and could adversely affect our business. we are, and may become, involved in disputes and lawsuits that could adversely affect our business. lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. these disputes and proceedings may involve significant expense and divert the attention of management and other employees. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see legal proceedings for additional information. our business is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws regarding data privacy and protection. our business is subject to federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. we post, on our website, our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. as internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. the introduction of new product and service offerings by us may cause new and different regulations to apply to our business. increased regulation in the area of data privacy and protection is expected, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing, protection or use of information could affect our ability to use and share data, or the adoption of our cloud offerings by customers. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines and penalties, a governmental order could require that we change our data practices. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations or a requirement to change our data practices could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our business could be adversely affected. our contracts with our customers may include specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurements regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we may be subject to qui tam litigation, the process by which a private individual sues or prosecutes on behalf of the government relating to government contracts and shares in the proceeds of any successful litigation or settlement, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business and affect our ability to compete for new contracts. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically 28 table of contents and internationally, to reduce spending. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. risks related to financial uncertainty our quarterly and annual operating results may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance. due to the unpredictability of the technology spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. if, among other considerations, our future financial performance falls below the expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. further, the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, news reports relating to trends in our markets, general economic conditions and other risks listed herein. in addition, several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may lack the financial and operational resources needed to increase our market share and compete effectively. we compete with a number of large and well-established companies that have significantly greater financial resources and name recognition, larger development staffs and more extensive marketing and distribution capabilities. some of these competitors also bundle hardware and software offerings, making it more difficult for us to penetrate their customer bases. no assurance can be given that our efforts to compete effectively will be sufficient. in the market for operating systems, we face significant competition from competitors which offer hardware-independent multi-user operating systems for intel platforms and/or linux and unix-based operating systems, including hp, ibm, microsoft corporation ( microsoft ), oracle and unisys corporation. with respect to linux operating systems, our chief competitor has historically been attachmate corporation ( attachmate ), with its suse brand of linux. canonical ltd. and oracle also sell support for their versions of the linux operating system. we also compete with freely available linux distributions, such as fedora, centos and debian. 29 table of contents in the market for middleware offerings, our competitors include, but are not limited to, ibm, microsoft, oracle and vmware, inc. ( vmware ) all of which offer portfolios of enterprise java and non-java middleware products. our middleware offering is heavily dependent on the java programming language, which is controlled by oracle. in the market for virtualization our competitors include, but are not limited to, attachmate, citrix systems, inc. ( citrix ), microsoft, oracle and vmware. with respect to our storage offerings we compete with companies that provide software-based storage products, such as emc corporation and netapp, inc. public cloud providers such as amazon and rackspace hosting, inc. ( rackspace ) also offer storage capabilities. with our cloud technologies we compete with companies that provide tools for enterprises to create private clouds, such as citrix, microsoft and vmware, as well as with companies that provide public clouds, such as amazon, google inc., microsoft and rackspace. with respect to our management offerings our competitors include attachmate, bmc software, inc., ca, inc., hp, ibm, microsoft and oracle, all of which offer support for heterogeneous operating system environments, such as linux, solaris, aix, hp-ux and windows. we face competition in the market for services related to the development, deployment and integration of enterprise technologies. our competitors in the market include accenture plc, hp, ibm and tata consultancy services limited, as well as other technology consulting companies. some of these competitors may be able to leverage their existing service organizations and provide higher levels of support, consulting and training on a more cost-effective basis than we can. we may lack the resources needed to compete successfully with our current competitors as well as potential new competitors. moreover, we compete in certain areas with our partners and potential partners, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for our offerings, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market opportunity. we may have to lower the prices of our offerings to stay competitive, which could adversely affect our margins and financial condition. in addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, we may lose market share. industry consolidation may also effect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, which may adversely affect on our business. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented approximately 43.3% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2013, continue to expand. our international operations accounted for approximately 43.3% of total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2013. as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource or supplement general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize offerings for a significant number of international markets, which may adversely affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business overseas that may adversely affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; pricing environments; 30 table of contents longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners outside of the united states; lower levels of availability or use of the internet, through which our software is often delivered; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights overseas due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, legal, cultural and other differences; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with the our brands; export and import laws and regulations could prevent us from delivering our offerings into and from certain countries; public health risks and natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers could affect the competitive pricing of our offerings and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets could adversely affect our business in those markets or result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenue associated with them. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from our red hat enterprise linux platform. during our fiscal year ended february 28, 2013, a substantial portion of our subscription revenues was derived from our red hat enterprise linux technologies. although we are continuing to develop other offerings, we expect that revenue from red hat enterprise linux will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. declines and variability in demand for red hat enterprise linux could occur as a result of: competitive products and pricing; failure to release new or enhanced versions of red hat enterprise linux on a timely basis, or at all; technological change that we are unable to address with red hat enterprise linux; or future economic conditions. additionally, as more customers and potential customers virtualize their data centers and move computing projects to cloud environments, demand for operating systems such as red hat enterprise linux may decline. due to the concentration of our revenues from red hat enterprise linux, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected by a decline in demand for red hat enterprise linux. we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in 31 table of contents the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could adversely affect our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could adversely affect our tax expense and cash flows. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined which could adversely affect our operating results. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls. we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet these requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our offerings, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act, we may not be able to accurately or timely 32 table of contents report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial position of our business could be adversely affected; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects, including changes to previously filed financial statements, which could cause our stock to decline. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these principles are subject to interpretation by the securities and exchange commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. a change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and illiquidity risks and fluctuations in the market value of our investments and interest rates. these risks may result in an impairment of or the loss of all or a portion of the value of our investments, an inability to sell our investments or a decline in interest income. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. our portfolio as of february 28, 2013 consisted primarily of money market funds, u.s. government and agency securities, german sovereign securities, certificates of deposit, corporate securities and equity securities. although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the risks associated with our investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security or issuer, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value or become impaired, or that our interest income will not decline. a significant part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government and agency securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a default or downgrade of u.s. government or agency debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. future fluctuations in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could record additional impairment charges and lose some or all of the principal value of investments in our portfolio. a total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. some of these investments may have been made to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. our investments in private companies are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose the value of our entire investment in these companies. we are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the u.s. dollar will affect our net revenue, operating expenses and operating margins. we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. as we expand international 33 table of contents operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations increases. we use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to economically hedge u.s. dollar and other currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. if these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. for information regarding our hedging activity, see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. the occurrence of one or more epidemics, natural disasters or geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks, in a country in which we operate or in which technology industry suppliers or our customers are located, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of our associates to reach or have transportation to our facilities directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of our customers, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of computer hardware and related components, the disruption or delay in the manufacture and transport of goods overseas, the disruption of utility services to our facilities or to suppliers, partners or customers, and disruption in our communications with our customers. 34 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of fixed-income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities which have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or perceived credit risk related to the securities issuers. a hypothetical one-half percentage point change in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in a $3.9 million change in annual interest income derived from investments in our portfolio as of february 28, 2013. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2013 and february 29, 2012, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 18 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. investment risk the fair market value of our investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage increase in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in an approximate $8.5 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 28, 2013. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2013 and february 29, 2012, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 18 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. credit risk the fair market values of our investment portfolio and cash balances are exposed to counterparty credit risk. accordingly, while we periodically review our portfolio in an effort to mitigate counterparty risk, the principal values of our cash balances, money market accounts and investments in available-for-sale securities could suffer a loss of value. foreign currency risk approximately 43.3% of our revenue for the year ended february 28, 2013 was produced by sales outside the united states. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. the statements of operations of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. thus, to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations decreases if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. using the average foreign currency exchange rates from our prior fiscal year ended february 29, 2012, our revenue and operating expenses from non-u.s. operations for the year ended february 28, 2013 would have been higher than we reported by approximately $32.9 million and $23.5 million, respectively, which would have resulted in income from operations being higher by $9.4 million. 61 table of contents derivative instruments we transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. from time to time we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. all derivative instruments are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their respective fair market values in accordance with fasb asc section 815 (formerly referenced as statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities). the company has elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify its forward contracts for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. for further discussion related to our management of foreign currency risk see note 10 derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2013 was $65.5 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2013 was a gross $0.3 million asset and a gross $0.2 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively on our consolidated balance sheets. the forward contracts generally expire within three months of the period ended february 28, 2013. the forward contracts will settle in argentine pesos, australian dollars, chilean pesos, czech koruna, danish krone, euros, israeli shekels, japanese yen, korean won, norwegian krona, singapore dollars, swedish krona, swiss francs, and u.s. dollars. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 29, 2012 was $59.7 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 29, 2012 was a gross $0.1 million asset and a gross $0.5 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively on our consolidated balance sheets. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. please carefully consider the following risks and cautionary statements. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. risks related to business uncertainty we face intense competition. the enterprise software industry is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and is subject to changing technologies, shifting customer needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. we compete based on our ability to provide our customers with enterprise software offerings that best meet their needs at a compelling price. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors products may provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our offerings. competitive pressures could also affect the prices we may charge or the demand for our offerings, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market share. our current and potential competitors range from large and well-established companies to emerging start-ups. some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and name recognition, larger development and sales staffs and more extensive marketing and distribution capabilities. certain competitors also bundle hardware and software offerings, making it more difficult for us to penetrate their customer bases. as the enterprise software industry evolves, the competitive pressure for the company to innovate encompasses a wider range of products and services, including new offerings, that require different expertise than our current offerings. some competitors may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can. industry consolidation may affect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete. we also compete in certain areas with our partners and potential partners, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. our efforts to compete effectively may not be sufficient, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry. investment in new offerings, business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our offerings to evolving industry standards, to predict user preferences and industry changes and to improve the performance and reliability of our offerings. our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business. in addition, the widespread adoption of other technological changes could require substantial expenditures on our part to modify or adapt our offerings or infrastructure. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings and technologies could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings and technologies. the success of new and enhanced offering introductions depends on several factors, including our ability to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings in a timely manner, successfully promote the offerings, manage the risks associated with the offerings, make sufficient resources available to support the offerings and address any quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and technology road map. such endeavors may involve 17 table of contents significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading cloud providers, enterprise solution providers, hardware manufacturers, and software vendors, such as amazon.com, inc., cisco systems, inc., dell inc., fujitsu limited, hewlett-packard co., international business machines corporation, nec corporation, oracle corporation, sap ag and others. many of these strategic partners have engineered and certified that their products and services run on or with our offerings, and in some cases have built their products using our offerings. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms in the future. some of our strategic partners offer competing products and services. as a result of these factors, many of the companies with which we have strategic alliances may choose to pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our offerings, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our offerings effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. as our agreements with strategic partners terminate or expire, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. we rely, to a significant degree, on indirect sales channels for the distribution of our offerings, and disruption within these channels could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we use a variety of different indirect distribution methods for our offerings, including channel partners, such as certified cloud providers, distributors, hardware original equipment manufacturers ( oems ), and resellers. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of channel partners with whom we have no direct relationship. these relationships allow us to offer our technologies to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we rely, to a significant degree, on each of our channel partners to select, screen and maintain relationships with its distribution network and to distribute our offerings in a manner that is consistent with applicable regulatory requirements and red hat quality standards. our channel partners may offer their own products and services that are competitive with our offerings or may not distribute and market our offerings effectively. moreover, our existing channel partner relationships do not, and any future channel partner relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. in addition, if a channel partner is acquired by a competitor or its business units are reorganized or divested, our revenue derived from that partner may be adversely impacted. recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our enterprise technologies requires significant time and resources. if we fail to devote sufficient resources to support and expand our network of channel partners, our business may be adversely affected. in addition, because we rely on channel partners for the indirect distribution of our enterprise technologies, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate end-users of our technologies, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our software, support ongoing customer requirements, estimate end-user demand, respond to evolving customer needs and obtain subscription renewals from end-users. if our indirect distribution channel is disrupted, we may be required to devote more resources to distribute our offerings directly and support our customers, which may not be as effective and could lead to higher costs, reduced revenue and growth that is slower than expected. 18 table of contents the duration and extent of economic downturns, regional financial instability, and economic and market conditions generally could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. economic weakness and uncertainty, tightened credit markets and constrained it spending from time to time contribute to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the customer segments and geographic regions in which we operate, which may result in reduced demand and increased price competition for our offerings. our operating results in one or more geographic regions or customer segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region or segment. continuing uncertainty about future economic conditions may, among other things, negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases or lengthen our sales cycle. adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, these conditions may impact our investment portfolio, and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. also, these conditions may make it more difficult to forecast operating results. if global economic conditions, or economic conditions in the u.s., europe, asia or in other key geographic regions or customer segments, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, current and prospective customers may delay or reduce their it spending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, divert management attention, adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows and dilute stockholder value. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions, and we may continue to do so in the future. these types of transactions can increase the expense of running our business and present significant challenges and risks, including: integrating the acquired business accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and reporting, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; gathering full information regarding a business or technology prior to a transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected tax implications and other adverse effects on our business; increased operating expenses related to the acquired business or technology; maintaining or establishing acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; impairment of relationships with our employees, partners or customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel, products or technology or as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape affected by the transaction; maintaining good relationships with customers or business partners of the acquired business; effective evaluation of talent at an acquired business or cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired business into our organization; loss of key employees of the acquired business; incorporating and further developing acquired products or technology into our offerings and maintaining quality standards consistent with our brands; 19 table of contents achieving the expected benefits of the transaction; expenses related to the transaction; claims and liabilities we may assume from the acquired business or technology, or that are otherwise related to the transaction; entering into new markets in which we have little or no experience or in which competitors may have stronger market positions; impairment of intangible assets and goodwill acquired in transactions; and for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing transactions that we have pursued or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing and completing such transactions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, or we may incur substantial debt. we could also issue additional securities as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. any transaction may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, or may take longer to do so than expected, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. for example, our total revenue increased from $1.33 billion for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2013 to $1.53 billion for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2014. moreover, the total number of our employees increased from over 5,600 as of february 28, 2013 to approximately 6,300 as of february 28, 2014. in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully provide our offerings and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources, internal controls and oversight from our senior management. as we expand in international markets, these challenges increase as a result of the need to support a growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, dispute resolution systems, regulatory systems and commercial practices. as we grow, (i) we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise, manage or develop sufficient personnel, and (ii) we may not be able to develop or effectively manage our controls, oversight functions or information systems. if we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. there has been a trend of consolidation in the technology industry. we expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry. for example, as the computing, networking, storage, and software technologies that comprise the enterprise data center converge, many companies seek to position themselves as key or single-source vendors providing end-to-end technology solutions for the data center. also, some of our current and potential competitors have made acquisitions or 20 table of contents announced new strategic alliances designed to position them as a key or single-source vendor. as a result of these developments, we face greater competition, including competition from entities that are among our key business partners. this increased competition could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry into the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone may modify and redistribute the existing open source software and use it to compete with us. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our offerings. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain capable management. our future success depends on the continued services and effectiveness of a number of key management personnel, including our ceo. the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, could adversely affect our business or stock price. our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent the technology sector performs well and/or if companies with more generous compensation packages or greater perceived growth opportunities compete for the same personnel. in addition, historically we have used share-based compensation as a key component of our compensation packages. changes in the accounting for share-based compensation could adversely affect our earnings or make it more beneficial for us to use more cash compensation to attract and retain capable personnel. if the price of our common stock falls, the value of our share-based awards to recipients is reduced. such events, or if we are unable to secure shareholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for share-based compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key management personnel could hinder our strategic planning and execution. we depend on our key non-management employees, and our inability to attract and retain such employees could adversely affect our business or diminish our brands. competition in our industry for qualified employees, especially technical employees, is intense and our competitors directly target our employees. our inability to attract and retain key employees could hinder our influence in open source projects and seriously impede our success. moreover, the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish our brands. we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we may experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. a number of our key employees have become, or will become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly 21 table of contents appreciated in value. additionally, as we grow, there may be less equity compensation to award per employee. if we do not succeed in attracting and retaining key personnel, our business, financial performance, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and collaboration fostered by our culture, and our business may be adversely affected. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and collaboration. as our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain these beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees. our subscription-based business model may encounter customer resistance or we may experience a decline in the demand for our offerings. we provide red hat enterprise technologies primarily under annual or multi-year subscriptions. a subscription generally entitles a customer to, among other things, a specified level of support, as well as new versions of the software, security updates, fixes, functionality enhancements and upgrades to the technology, if and when available, and compatibility with an ecosystem of certified hardware and software applications. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, we may still encounter customer resistance to this distribution model or customers may fail to honor the terms of our subscription agreements. to the extent we are unsuccessful in promoting or defending this distribution model, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. demand for our offerings depends substantially on the general demand for enterprise software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. in addition, our customers generally undertake a significant evaluation process that may result in a lengthy sales cycle. we spend substantial time, effort, and money on our sales efforts, including developing and implementing appropriate go-to-market strategies and training our sales force and channel partners in order to effectively market new offerings, without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. the purchase of our offerings may be discretionary and can involve significant expenditures. if our current and prospective customers cut costs, then they may significantly reduce their enterprise software expenditures. as technologies and the markets for our enterprise offerings change, our subscription-based business model may no longer meet the needs of our customers. for example, a business model based on annual or multi-year subscriptions may no longer be competitive in an environment where disruptive technologies (such as virtualization and cloud) enable customers to consume computing resources on an hourly basis or for free. we also develop and offer disruptive technologies, which may have an effect on the demand for our subscription-based offerings. an increased focus on developing and providing virtualization, storage and cloud computing offerings may require a greater focus on marketing more holistic solutions, rather than individual offerings. consequently, we may need to develop appropriate marketing and pricing strategies for our offerings, our customers purchasing decisions may become more complex and require additional levels of approval and the duration of sales cycles for our offerings may increase. 22 table of contents if we are unable to adapt our business model to changes in the marketplace or if demand for our offerings declines, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. if our customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, or if they renew on less favorable terms, our business, financial results, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. our customers may not renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact, some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower-priced edition of our offerings or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower-priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make their products and services compatible with our offerings, our software may cease to be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. the competitive position of our offerings is dependent on their compatibility with products and services of third-party enterprise hardware and software companies. to the extent that a software or hardware vendor might have or develop products and services that compete with ours, the vendor may have an incentive to seek to limit the performance, functionality or compatibility of our offerings when used with one or more of the vendor offerings. in addition, these vendors may fail to support or issue statements of compatibility or certification of our offerings when used with their offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to our offerings, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various third-party hardware and software offerings by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware and software vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our offerings may not be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new technologies, adequately enhance our existing technologies or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our enterprise technologies. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our offerings or we would need to develop and enhance our offerings with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our technology release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our offerings could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. 23 table of contents our offerings may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our enterprise technologies and expose us to claims and litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and may continue to be found in our offerings after deployment. this risk is increased by the fact that much of the code in our offerings is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them, and we may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. errors and failures in our offerings could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our enterprise technologies, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince enterprise users of the benefits of our technologies. in addition, errors in our technologies could cause system failures, loss of data or other adverse effects for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our agreements with our customers often contain provisions which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. while we seek to insure against these types of claims, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to such claims. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time consuming to defend and could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, operating results and cash flows. our virtualization, storage and cloud computing offerings are based on emerging technologies and business models, and the potential market for these offerings remains uncertain. our virtualization, storage and cloud computing offerings are based on emerging technologies and business models, the success of which will depend on the perceived technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the adoption of these technologies. virtualization, storage and cloud computing technologies are rapidly evolving, and their development is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment as well as the accurate anticipation of technology trends, market demand and customer needs. we expect competition to remain intense and, as with many emerging it sectors, these technologies may be subject to a first mover effect pursuant to which certain product offerings rapidly capture a significant portion of market share and developer attention. moreover, we may make errors in reacting to relevant business trends and predicting which technologies are successful or otherwise develop into industry standards. adoption of virtualization, storage and cloud computing offerings may occur more slowly or less pervasively than we expect and the revenue growth associated with these offerings may be slower than currently expected. moreover, even if virtualization, storage and cloud computing are adopted widely by enterprises, our offerings in these areas may not attract a sufficient number of users or generate attractive financial results. we incur expenses associated with these offerings in advance of our ability to generate associated revenue. demand for our virtualization, storage and cloud computing offerings may unfavorably impact demand for our other offerings, including software subscriptions and related professional services. if the market for our virtualization, storage and cloud computing offerings fails to develop adequately, it could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our continued success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance strong brands. we believe that the brand identities that we have developed have contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to expanding our customer base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brands, we may be required to make further investments that may not be successful. maintaining our brands will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high-quality offerings. if we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. 24 table of contents if our growth rate slows, our stock price could be adversely affected. as the markets for our offerings mature and the scale of our business increases, our rate of revenue growth will likely be lower than the growth rates we experienced in earlier periods. in addition, to the extent that the adoption of our offerings occurs more slowly or is less pervasive than we expect, our revenue growth rates may slow or our revenue may decline, which could adversely affect our stock price. security breaches and data loss may expose us to liability, harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. our business involves the production and distribution of enterprise software technologies, as well as hosting applications. as part of our business, we (or third parties with whom we contract) receive, store and process our data, as well as our customers and partners data. while we take security and testing measures relating to our offerings and operations, those measures may not prevent security breaches and data loss that could harm our business or the businesses of our customers and partners. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate technology or facility security measures or other factors may result in data loss or a compromise or breach of our systems and the data we receive, store and process (or systems and the data received, stored and processed by third parties with whom we contract). these security measures may be breached or data lost as a result of actions by third parties or employee error or malfeasance. a party who is able to circumvent security measures or exploit inadequacies in security measures, could, among other things, misappropriate proprietary information (including information about our employees, customers and partners and our customers information), cause the loss or disclosure of some or all of this information, cause interruptions in our or our customers operations, cause delays in development efforts or expose customers (and their customers) to computer viruses or other disruptions or vulnerabilities. a compromise to these systems could remain undetected for an extended period of time, exacerbating the impact of that compromise. these risks may increase as we continue to grow our cloud and services offerings and as we receive, store and process more of our customers data. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to regulatory investigations, claims against us by customers, partners or other third parties, or costs, such as those related to providing customer notifications and fraud monitoring. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. any loss of data or compromise of our systems or the data we receive, store or process (or systems and the data received, stored and processed by third parties with whom we contract) could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings, damage our reputation, lead to legal liability and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we are vulnerable to technology infrastructure failures, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, and the technology infrastructure of third parties, for many functions, including selling our offerings, supporting our partners, fulfilling orders and billing, collecting and making payments. this technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer intrusions and viruses, software errors, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of the systems making up this infrastructure are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for every eventuality. this technology infrastructure may fail or be vulnerable to damage or interruption because of actions by third parties or employee error or malfeasance. we may not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of technology infrastructure failures or to cover all contingencies. any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers or partners may cause a reduction in customer or partner satisfaction levels, which in turn could cause additional claims, reduced revenue or loss of customers or partners. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, a loss of data, loss of confidence in the stability and 25 table of contents reliability of our offerings, damage to our reputation, legal liability, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows interruptions. a decline in or reprioritization of funding in the u.s. government budget or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we derive, and expect to continue to derive, a portion of our revenue from u.s. government agencies. government deficit reduction and austerity measures, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on u.s. government spending. the termination of, or delayed or reduced funding for, government-sponsored programs and contracts from which we derive revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our offerings, damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. if we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our offerings but competing technology becomes more widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our offerings may be reduced and that could harm our reputation, diminish our brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we include software licensed from other parties in our offerings, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay availability of our offerings. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties in our offerings. aspects of our business could be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were no longer available to us, no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms or changed in ways or included defects that made the third-party software unsuitable for our use. in these cases, we would be required to either redesign our technologies to function with software available from other parties, develop these components ourselves or eliminate the functionality, which could result in increased costs, the need to mitigate customer issues, delays in delivery of our offerings and the release of new offerings and limit the features available in our current or future offerings. risks related to legal uncertainty if our technologies are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we may be required to take costly and time consuming actions to meet our commitments to customers. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our offerings are found to infringe any third-party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the technology consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the technology so that it is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and indemnify them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and we often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying the commitments could be costly, be time consuming, divert the attention of technical and management personnel, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. 26 table of contents we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights and an unfavorable legal decision affecting our intellectual property could adversely affect our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patent, copyright and trade secrets, because our technologies are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. we are also unlikely to be able to assess adequately the relevance of patents to our technologies, and may be unable to take appropriate responsive action, in a timely or economic manner because, among other reasons, the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined or readily determinable, patent applications in the u.s. are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing. our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may increase as a result of acquisitions. in addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition of such technology. in the past, our technologies have been subject to intellectual property infringement claims. some of these claims have been brought by entities that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement. as these entities do not have operating businesses of their own and therefore have limited risk of counterclaims for damages or injunctive relief, it may be difficult to deter them from bringing intellectual property infringement claims. we expect to face the possibility of more intellectual property infringement claims as our prominence increases, business activities expand, market share and revenue grow, the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products in different portions of the industry overlap. we may not be able to accurately assess the risk related to these suits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. defending patent and other intellectual property claims, even claims without significant merit, can be time consuming, costly and can divert the attention of technical and management personnel. we may receive unfavorable preliminary or interim rulings in the course of litigation, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. we may decide to settle certain lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease offering certain of our technologies or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue offering technologies found to be in violation of a third party rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. as a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or practices or discontinue the practices. the development of alternative non-infringing technology or practices could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. an unfavorable legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see item 3, legal proceedings for additional information. our activities, or the activities of our partners, may violate anti-corruption laws and regulations that apply to us. in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations that may apply to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to help promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, partners and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any violation of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. 27 table of contents we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our technologies are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that open source components of our offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, may have the effect of preventing us from distributing or developing all or a portion of our offerings. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may no longer be compatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from continuing to distribute the software code subject to the modified license. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our collection of trademarks is valuable and important to our business. the protective steps we have taken in the past may have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in various countries around the world. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to distribute our offerings. we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy one or more of our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our technologies could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our technology innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be adversely affected. this in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our technologies and further our research and development efforts, and could adversely affect our business. we are, and may become, involved in disputes and lawsuits that could adversely affect our business. lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. these disputes and proceedings may involve significant expense and divert the attention of management and other employees. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see item 3, legal proceedings for additional information. our business is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws regarding data privacy and protection. our business is subject to federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. we post, on our website, our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. as 28 table of contents internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. the introduction of new offerings by us may cause new and different regulations to apply to our business. new or increased laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing, protection, use or other treatment of information could affect our ability to use and share data, or the adoption of our cloud offerings by customers. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines and penalties, a governmental order could require that we change our data practices. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations or a requirement to change our data practices could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our business could be adversely affected. our contracts with our customers may include specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurements regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we may be subject to qui tam litigation, the process by which a private individual sues or prosecutes on behalf of the government relating to government contracts and shares in the proceeds of any successful litigation or settlement, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business and affect our ability to compete for new contracts. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. we provide offerings, such as openshift, that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities. the law relating to the liability of providers of these online offerings for activities of their users is relatively unsettled and still developing both in the u.s. and internationally and may be significantly different from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. claims could be brought against us for breaches of contract, defamation, fraud, libel, negligence, patent, copyright or trademark infringement, tort, unfair competition, unlawful activity, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our customers. in addition, we could be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates applicable law. 29 table of contents risks related to financial uncertainty our quarterly and annual operating results may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance. due to the unpredictability of the it spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. if, among other considerations, our future financial performance falls below the expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. further, the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new offerings by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, news reports relating to trends in our markets, general economic conditions and other risks listed herein. in addition, several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented approximately 44.7% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2014, continue to expand. our international operations accounted for approximately 44.7% of total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2014. as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource or supplement general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize offerings for a significant number of international markets, which may adversely affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business overseas that may adversely affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; pricing environments; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; laws and policies of the u.s. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners outside of the u.s.; 30 table of contents lower levels of availability or use of the internet, through which our software is often delivered; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights overseas due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, legal, cultural and other differences; different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with the our brands; export and import laws and regulations could prevent us from delivering our offerings into and from certain countries; public health risks and natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers that could affect the competitive pricing of our offerings and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets that could adversely affect our business in those markets or result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenue associated with them. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from our red hat enterprise linux platform. during our fiscal year ended february 28, 2014, a substantial portion of our subscription revenue was derived from our red hat enterprise linux technologies. although we are continuing to develop other offerings, we expect that revenue from red hat enterprise linux will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. declines and variability in demand for red hat enterprise linux could occur as a result of: competitive products and pricing; failure to release new or enhanced versions of red hat enterprise linux on a timely basis, or at all; technological change that we are unable to address with red hat enterprise linux; or future economic conditions. additionally, as more customers and potential customers virtualize their data centers and move computing projects to cloud environments, demand for operating systems such as red hat enterprise linux may decline. due to the concentration of our revenue from red hat enterprise linux, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected by a decline in demand for red hat enterprise linux. we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially 31 table of contents different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. the results of an audit or litigation could adversely affect our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could adversely affect our tax expense and cash flows. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls. we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet these requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our offerings, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial condition of our business could be adversely affected; current and potential future shareholders could lose confidence in us and/or 32 table of contents our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects, including changes to previously filed financial statements, which could cause our stock to decline. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these principles are subject to interpretation by the securities and exchange commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. a change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and illiquidity risks and fluctuations in the market value of our investments and interest rates. these risks may result in an impairment of, or the loss of all or a portion of, the value of our investments, an inability to sell our investments or a decline in interest income. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. our portfolio as of february 28, 2014 consisted primarily of money market funds, u.s. government and agency securities, german sovereign and agency securities, certificates of deposit, and corporate securities. although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the risks associated with our investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security or issuer, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value or become impaired, or that our interest income will not decline. a significant part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government and agency securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a default or downgrade of u.s. government or agency debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. future fluctuations in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could record additional impairment charges and lose some or all of the principal value of investments in our portfolio. a total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. some of these investments may have been made to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. our investments in private companies are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose the value of our entire investment in these companies. we are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the u.s. dollar will affect our net revenue, operating expenses and operating margins. we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. as we expand international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations increases. we use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to economically hedge currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. if these hedging activities are not successful or we change or 33 table of contents reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. for information regarding our hedging activity, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . epidemics, geo-political events, internet and power outages or natural disasters could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. the occurrence of one or more epidemics, geo-political events (such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks), internet and power outages or natural disasters in a country in which we operate or in which technology industry suppliers or our customers are located, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of our customers to access our offerings, the inability of our associates to reach or have transportation to our facilities directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of our customers, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of computer hardware and related components, the disruption or delay in the manufacture and transport of goods overseas, the disruption of utility services to our facilities or to suppliers, partners or customers, or disruption in our communications with our customers. 34 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of fixed-income securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities which have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or perceived credit risk related to the securities issuers. a hypothetical one-half percentage point change in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in a $0.6 million change in annual interest income derived from investments in our portfolio as of february 28, 2014. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2014 and february 28, 2013, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 18 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. investment risk the fair market value of our investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage increase in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in an approximate $14.4 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 28, 2014. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2014 and february 28, 2013, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 18 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. credit risk the fair market values of our investment portfolio and cash balances are exposed to counterparty credit risk. accordingly, while we periodically review our portfolio in an effort to mitigate counterparty risk, the principal values of our cash balances, money market accounts and investments in available-for-sale securities could suffer a loss of value. accounts receivable as of february 28, 2014 and february 28, 2013, no individual customer accounted for 10% or more of the company accounts receivable. foreign currency risk approximately 44.7% of our revenue for the year ended february 28, 2014 was produced by sales outside the u.s. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component in determining net income. the statements of operations of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. thus, to the extent the 61 table of contents u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations decreases if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. using the average foreign currency exchange rates from our prior fiscal year ended february 28, 2013, our revenue and operating expenses from non-u.s. operations for the year ended february 28, 2014 would have been higher than we reported by approximately $21.4 million and $12.1 million, respectively, which would have resulted in income from operations being higher by $9.3 million. derivative instruments we transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. from time to time we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. all derivative instruments are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their respective fair market values in accordance with fasb accounting standards codification section 815 (formerly referenced as statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities). the company has elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify its forward contracts for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. for further discussion related to our management of foreign currency risk see note 10 derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2014 was $28.3 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2014 was a gross $0.1 million asset and a gross less than $0.1 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively on our consolidated balance sheets. the forward contracts generally expire within three months of the period ended february 28, 2014. the forward contracts will settle in argentine pesos, australian dollars, chilean pesos, czech koruna, danish krone, euros, israeli shekels, japanese yen, korean won, norwegian krona, singapore dollars, swedish krona, swiss francs, and u.s. dollars. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2013 was $65.5 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2013 was a gross $0.3 million asset and a gross $0.2 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively on our consolidated balance sheets. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. please carefully consider the following risks and cautionary statements. if any event related to the following risks factors occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. risks related to business uncertainty we face intense competition. the enterprise software industry is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and is subject to changing technologies, shifting customer needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. we compete based on our ability to provide our customers with enterprise software offerings that best meet their needs at a compelling price. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors products may provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our offerings. competitive pressures could also affect the prices we may charge or the demand for our offerings, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market share. our current and potential competitors range from large and well-established companies to emerging start-ups. some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and name recognition, larger development and sales staffs and more extensive marketing and distribution capabilities. certain competitors also bundle hardware and software offerings, making it more difficult for us to penetrate their customer bases. as the enterprise software industry evolves, the competitive pressure for us to innovate encompasses a wider range of products and services, including new offerings that require different expertise than our current offerings. some competitors may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can. given the rapid evolving nature of the enterprise software industry, the competitive landscape and the nature of the competition is constantly changing. industry consolidation may affect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete. moreover, other companies may currently be planning to or are under pressure by stockholders to divest businesses. these divestitures may result in additional competitors that may have an advantage by focusing on a single product or service. we also compete in certain areas with our partners and potential partners, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. our efforts to compete effectively may not be sufficient, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry. investment in new offerings, business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our offerings to evolving industry standards, to predict user preferences and industry changes and to improve the performance and reliability of our offerings. our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business. in addition, the widespread adoption of other technological changes could require substantial expenditures on our part to modify or adapt our offerings or infrastructure. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings and technologies could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings and technologies. the success of new and enhanced offering introductions depends on several factors, including our ability to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings in a timely manner, successfully promote the offerings, manage the risks associated with the offerings, make sufficient resources available to support the offerings and address any quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. 17 table of contents moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and technology road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading cloud service providers, hardware original equipment manufacturers, independent software vendors and system integrators, such as amazon.com, inc., cisco systems, inc., dell inc., fujitsu limited, hewlett-packard co., international business machines corporation, nec corporation, oracle corporation, sap ag and others. many of these strategic partners have engineered and certified that their products and services run on or with our offerings, and in some cases have built their products using our offerings. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms in the future. some of our strategic partners offer competing products and services. as a result of these factors, many of the companies with which we have strategic alliances may choose to pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our offerings, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our offerings effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. as our agreements with strategic partners terminate or expire, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. we rely, to a significant degree, on indirect sales channels for the distribution of our offerings, and disruption within these channels could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we use a variety of different indirect distribution methods for our offerings, including channel partners, such as cloud service providers, distributors, embedded technology partners, hardware original equipment manufacturers, independent software vendors, system integrators and value added resellers. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of channel partners with whom we have no direct relationship. these relationships allow us to offer our technologies to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we rely, to a significant degree, on each of our channel partners to select, screen and maintain relationships with its distribution network and to distribute our offerings in a manner that is consistent with applicable law and regulatory requirements and our quality standards. if our channel partners or a partner in its distribution network violate applicable law or regulatory requirements or misrepresent the functionality of our offerings, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to potential liability. furthermore, our channel partners may offer their own products and services that are competitive with our offerings or may not distribute and market our offerings effectively. moreover, our existing channel partner relationships do not, and any future channel partner relationships may not, afford us any exclusive marketing or distribution rights. in addition, if a channel partner is acquired by a competitor or its business units are reorganized or divested, our revenue derived from that partner may be adversely impacted. recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our enterprise technologies requires significant time and resources. if we fail to devote sufficient resources to support and expand our network of channel partners, our business may be adversely affected. in addition, because we rely on channel partners for the indirect distribution of our enterprise technologies, we may have little or no contact with 18 table of contents the ultimate end-users of our technologies, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our software, support ongoing customer requirements, estimate end-user demand, respond to evolving customer needs and obtain subscription renewals from end-users. a portion of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through our channel partners. government entities may have statutory, contractual, or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our channel partners for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future operating results. governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our offerings, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. if our indirect distribution channel is disrupted, we may be required to devote more resources to distribute our offerings directly and support our customers, which may not be as effective and could lead to higher costs, reduced revenue and growth that is slower than expected. we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, divert management attention, adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows or dilute stockholder value. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions, and we may continue to do so in the future. these types of transactions can increase the expense of running our business and present significant challenges and risks, including: integrating the acquired business accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and reporting, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; gathering full information regarding a business or technology prior to a transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected tax implications and other adverse effects on our business; increasing or additional operating expenses related to the acquired business or technology; maintaining or establishing acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; disrupting of our ongoing business and distraction of management; impairing relationships with our employees, partners or customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel, products or technology or as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape affected by the transaction; maintaining good relationships with customers or business partners of the acquired business; effectively evaluating talent at an acquired business or cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired business into our organization; losing key employees of the acquired business; incorporating and further developing acquired products or technology into our offerings and maintaining quality standards consistent with our brands; achieving the expected benefits of the transaction, which may include generating greater market acceptance of our technologies, increasing our revenues or integrating the assets acquired into one or more of our current offerings; incurring expenses related to the transaction; 19 table of contents assuming claims and liabilities from the acquired business or technology, or that are otherwise related to the transaction; entering into new markets in which we have little or no experience or in which competitors may have stronger market positions; impairing of intangible assets and goodwill acquired in transactions; and for foreign transactions, managing additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing transactions that we have pursued or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing and completing such transactions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, or we may incur substantial debt. we could also issue additional securities as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. any transaction may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, or may take longer to do so than expected, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. the duration and extent of economic downturns, regional financial instability, and economic and market conditions generally could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. economic weakness and uncertainty, tightened credit markets and constrained it spending from time to time contribute to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the customer segments and geographic regions in which we operate, which may result in reduced demand and increased price competition for our offerings. our operating results in one or more geographic regions or customer segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region or segment. continuing uncertainty about future economic conditions may, among other things, negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases or lengthen our sales cycle. adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, these conditions may impact our investment portfolio, and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. also, these conditions may make it more difficult to forecast operating results. if global economic conditions, or economic conditions in the u.s., europe, asia or in other key geographic regions or customer segments, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, current and prospective customers may delay or reduce their it spending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. for example, our total revenue increased from $1.53 billion for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2014 to $1.79 billion for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2015. moreover, the total number of our employees increased from approximately 6,300 as of february 28, 2014 to approximately 7,300 as of february 28, 2015. in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully provide our offerings and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources, internal controls and oversight from our senior management. as we expand in international markets, these challenges increase as a 20 table of contents result of the need to support a growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, dispute resolution systems, regulatory systems and commercial practices. as we grow, (i) we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise, manage or develop sufficient personnel, and (ii) we may not be able to develop or effectively manage our controls, oversight functions or information systems. if we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. industry consolidation and divestitures may lead to increased competition and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. there has been a trend of both consolidation and divestitures in the technology industry. we expect these trends to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry. for example, as the computing, networking, storage, and software technologies that comprise the enterprise data center converge, many companies seek to position themselves as key or single-source vendors providing end-to-end technology solutions for the data center. also, some of our current and potential competitors have made acquisitions or announced new strategic alliances designed to position them as a key or single-source vendor. as a result of these developments, we face greater competition, including competition from entities that are among our key business partners. this increased competition could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry into the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone may modify and redistribute the existing open source software and use it to compete with us. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our offerings. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain capable management. our future success depends on the continued services and effectiveness of a number of key management personnel, including our ceo. the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, could adversely affect our business or stock price. our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent that other companies are able to offer more attractive opportunities to the individuals we seek to hire or retain. in addition, historically we have used share-based compensation as a key component of our compensation packages. changes in the accounting for share-based compensation could adversely affect our earnings or make it more beneficial for us to use more cash compensation to attract and retain capable personnel. if the price of our common stock falls, the value of our share-based awards to recipients is reduced. such events, or if we are unable to secure stockholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for share-based compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key management personnel could hinder our strategic planning and execution. 21 table of contents we depend on our key non-management employees, and our inability to attract and retain such employees could adversely affect our business or diminish our brands. competition in our industry for qualified employees, especially technical employees, is intense and our competitors directly target our employees. our inability to attract and retain key employees could hinder our influence in open source projects and seriously impede our success. moreover, the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish our brands. we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we may experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited, that they have divulged proprietary or other confidential information, or that their former employers own their inventions or other work product. a number of our key employees have become, or will become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly appreciated in value. additionally, as we grow, there may be less equity compensation to award per employee. if we do not succeed in attracting and retaining key personnel, our business, financial performance, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and collaboration fostered by our culture, and our business may be adversely affected. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and collaboration. as our organization grows, our employees (including remote workers) and our resources become more globally dispersed and our organizational management structures become more complex, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain these beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees, continue to perform at current levels or execute on our business strategy. as a result, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. our subscription-based business model may encounter customer resistance or we may experience a decline in the demand for our offerings. we provide red hat enterprise technologies primarily under annual or multi-year subscriptions. a subscription generally entitles a customer to, among other things, a specified level of support, as well as new versions of the software, security updates, fixes, functionality enhancements and upgrades to the technology, if and when available, and compatibility with an ecosystem of certified hardware and software. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, we may still encounter customer resistance to this distribution model or customers may fail to honor the terms of our subscription agreements. to the extent we are unsuccessful in promoting or defending this distribution model, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. demand for our offerings depends substantially on the general demand for enterprise software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. in addition, our customers generally undertake a significant evaluation process that may result in a lengthy sales cycle. we spend substantial time, effort, and money on our sales efforts, including developing and implementing appropriate go-to-market strategies and training our sales force and channel partners in order to effectively market new offerings, without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. the purchase of our offerings may be discretionary and can involve significant expenditures. if our current and prospective customers cut costs, then they may significantly reduce their enterprise software expenditures. 22 table of contents as technologies and the markets for our enterprise offerings change, our subscription-based business model may no longer meet the needs of our customers. for example, a business model based on annual or multi-year subscriptions may no longer be competitive in an environment where disruptive technologies (such as virtualization and cloud) enable customers to consume computing resources on an hourly basis or for free. we also develop and offer these disruptive technologies with consumption-based pricing, which may have an effect on the demand for our subscription-based offerings. an increased focus on developing and providing virtualization, storage and cloud offerings may require a greater focus on marketing more holistic solutions, rather than individual offerings. consequently, we may need to develop appropriate marketing and pricing strategies for our offerings, our customers purchasing decisions may become more complex and require additional levels of approval and the duration of sales cycles for our offerings may increase. if we are unable to adapt our business model to changes in the marketplace or if demand for our offerings declines, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. if our customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, or if they renew on less favorable terms, our business, financial results, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. our customers may not renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact, some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower-priced edition of our offerings or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower-priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make their products and services compatible with our offerings, our software may cease to be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. the competitive position of our offerings is dependent on their compatibility with products and services of third-party enterprise hardware and software companies. to the extent that a hardware or software vendor might have or develop products and services that compete with ours, the vendor may have an incentive to seek to limit the performance, functionality or compatibility of our offerings when used with one or more of the vendor offerings. in addition, these vendors may fail to support or issue statements of compatibility or certification of our offerings when used with their offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to our offerings, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various third-party hardware and software offerings by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware and software vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our offerings may not be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new technologies, adequately enhance our existing technologies or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our enterprise technologies. for example, linus torvalds, a 23 table of contents prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our offerings or we would need to develop and enhance our offerings with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our technology release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our offerings could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. our offerings may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our enterprise technologies and expose us to claims and litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and may continue to be found in our offerings after deployment. this risk is increased by the fact that much of the code in our offerings is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them, and we may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. errors and failures in our offerings could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our enterprise technologies, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince enterprise users of the benefits of our technologies. in addition, errors in our technologies could cause system failures, loss of data or other adverse effects for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our agreements with our customers often contain provisions which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. while we seek to insure against these types of claims, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to such claims. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, operating results and cash flows. our virtualization, storage and cloud offerings are based on emerging technologies and business models, and the potential market for these offerings remains uncertain. our virtualization, storage and cloud offerings are based on emerging technologies and business models, the success of which will depend on the perceived technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the adoption of these technologies. virtualization, storage and cloud technologies are rapidly evolving, and their development is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment as well as the accurate anticipation of technology trends, market demand and customer needs. we expect competition to remain intense and, as with many emerging it sectors, these technologies may be subject to a first mover effect pursuant to which certain product offerings rapidly capture a significant portion of market share and developer attention. moreover, we may make errors in reacting to relevant business trends and predicting which technologies are successful or otherwise develop into industry standards. adoption of virtualization, storage and cloud offerings may occur more slowly or less pervasively than we expect and the revenue growth associated with these offerings may be slower than currently expected. moreover, even if virtualization, storage and cloud technologies are adopted widely by enterprises, our offerings in these areas may not attract a sufficient number of users or generate attractive financial results. we incur expenses associated with these offerings in advance of our ability to generate associated revenue. demand for our virtualization, storage 24 table of contents and cloud offerings may unfavorably impact demand for our other offerings, including software subscriptions and related professional services. if the market for our virtualization, storage and cloud offerings fails to develop adequately, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our continued success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance strong brands. we believe that the brand identities that we have developed have contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to expanding our customer base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brands, we may be required to make further investments that may not be successful. maintaining our brands will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high-quality offerings. if we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if our growth rate slows, our stock price could be adversely affected. as the markets for our offerings mature and the scale of our business increases, our rate of revenue growth will likely be lower than the growth rates we experienced in earlier periods. in addition, to the extent that the adoption of our offerings occurs more slowly or is less pervasive than we expect, our revenue growth rates may slow or our revenue may decline, which could adversely affect our stock price. security breaches and data loss may expose us to liability, harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. our business involves the production and distribution of enterprise software technologies, as well as hosting applications. as part of our business, we (or third parties with whom we contract) receive, store and process our data, as well as our customers and partners data. while we take security and testing measures relating to our offerings and operations, those measures may not prevent security breaches and data loss that could harm our business or the businesses of our customers and partners. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate technology or facility security measures or other factors may result in data loss or a compromise or breach of our systems and the data we receive, store and process (or systems and the data received, stored and processed by third parties with whom we contract). these security measures may be breached or data lost as a result of actions by third parties, employee error (such as weak passwords or unencrypted devices), malfeasance or vulnerabilities or security bugs found in software code. a party who is able to circumvent security measures or exploit inadequacies in security measures, could, among other things, misappropriate proprietary information (including information about our employees, customers and partners, our customers information, financial data and data that others could use to compete against us), cause the loss or disclosure of some or all of this information, cause interruptions or denial of service in our or our customers operations, cause delays in development efforts or expose customers (and their customers) to computer viruses or other disruptions or vulnerabilities. a compromise to these systems could remain undetected for an extended period of time, exacerbating the impact of that compromise. these risks may increase as we continue to grow our cloud and services offerings and as we receive, store and process more of our customers data. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to regulatory investigations, claims against us by customers, partners or other third parties, or costs, such as those related to providing customer notifications and fraud monitoring. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. moreover, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any loss of data or compromise of our systems or the data we receive, store or process (or systems and the data received, stored and processed by third parties with whom we contract) could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings, damage our reputation, loss of channel or strategic partners, lead to legal liability and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 25 table of contents we are vulnerable to technology infrastructure failures, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, and the technology infrastructure of third parties, for many functions, including selling our offerings, supporting our partners, fulfilling orders and billing, collecting and making payments. this technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer intrusions, vulnerabilities and viruses, software errors, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of the systems making up this infrastructure are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for every eventuality. this technology infrastructure may fail or be vulnerable to damage or interruption because of actions by third parties or employee error or malfeasance. we may not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of technology infrastructure failures or to cover all contingencies. any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers or partners may cause a reduction in customer or partner satisfaction levels, which in turn could cause additional claims, reduced revenue or loss of customers or partners. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, a loss of data, loss of confidence in the stability and reliability of our offerings, damage to our reputation, and legal liability, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows interruptions. a decline in or reprioritization of funding in the u.s. or foreign government budgets or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we derive, and expect to continue to derive, a portion of our revenue from u.s. and foreign governments. government deficit reduction and austerity measures, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on u.s. and foreign government spending. the termination of, or delayed or reduced funding for, government-sponsored programs and contracts from which we derive revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our offerings, damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. if we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our offerings but competing technology becomes more widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our offerings may be reduced and that could harm our reputation, diminish our brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we include software licensed from other parties in our offerings, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay availability of our offerings. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties in our offerings. aspects of our business could be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were no longer available to us, no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms or changed in ways or included defects that made the third-party software unsuitable for our use. in these cases, we would be required to either redesign our technologies to function with software available from other parties, develop these components ourselves or eliminate the functionality, which could result in increased costs, the need to mitigate customer issues, delays in delivery of our offerings and the release of new offerings and limit the features available in our current or future offerings. 26 table of contents risks related to legal uncertainty if our technologies are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we may be required to take costly and time-consuming actions to meet our commitments to customers. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our offerings are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the technology consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the technology so that its use is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and indemnify them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and we often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying the commitments could be costly, be time-consuming, divert the attention of technical and management personnel, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. finally, because we have agreed to indemnify our subscription customers against specified infringement claims arising from the use of our offerings, we could become involved in litigation brought against such customers if our services and technology are allegedly implicated. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights and an unfavorable legal decision affecting our intellectual property could adversely affect our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, because our technologies are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. we are also unlikely to be able to assess adequately the relevance of patents to our technologies, and may be unable to take appropriate responsive action in a timely or economic manner because, among other reasons, the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined or readily determinable, patent applications in the u.s. are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing. our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may increase as a result of acquisitions. in addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition of such technology. in the past, our technologies have been subject to intellectual property infringement claims. some of these claims have been brought by entities that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement. as these entities do not have operating businesses of their own and therefore have limited risk of counterclaims for damages or injunctive relief, it may be difficult to deter them from bringing intellectual property infringement claims. we expect to face the possibility of more intellectual property infringement claims as our prominence increases, business activities expand, market share and revenue grow, the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products in different portions of the industry overlap. we may not be able to accurately assess the risk related to these suits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. defending patent and other intellectual property claims, even claims without significant merit, can be time-consuming, costly and can divert the attention of technical and management personnel. we may receive unfavorable preliminary or interim rulings in the course of litigation, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. we may decide to settle certain lawsuits and disputes on terms that are disadvantageous to us. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease offering certain of our technologies or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue offering technologies found to be in violation of a third party rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our 27 table of contents operating costs and expenses. as a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or practices or discontinue the practices. the development of alternative non-infringing technology or practices could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. an unfavorable legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings for additional information. our activities, or the activities of our partners, may violate anti-corruption laws and regulations that apply to us. in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations that may apply to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to help promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, partners and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any violation of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our technologies are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that open source components of our offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, may have the effect of preventing us from distributing or developing all or a portion of our offerings. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may no longer be compatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from continuing to distribute the software code subject to the modified license. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our collection of trademarks is valuable and important to our business. the protective steps we have taken in the past may have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in various countries around the world. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to distribute our offerings. we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy one or more of our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. 28 table of contents efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our technologies could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our technology innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be adversely affected. this in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our technologies and further our research and development efforts, and could adversely affect our business. our patent promise on software patents limits our ability to enforce our patent rights in certain circumstances. as part of our commitment to the open source community, we provide our patent promise on software patents. under our patent promise, we agree, subject to certain limitations, not to enforce our patent rights against users of open source software covered by certain open source licenses, including the gnu general public license version 2.0 and version 3.0, gnu lesser general public license version 2.1 and version 3.0, ibm public license version 1.0, common public license version 1.0, q public license version 1.0, open software license version 3.0 and any other open source license granted by red hat. while we may be able to claim protection of our intellectual property under other rights, such as trade secrets or contractual rights, our patent promise effectively limits our ability to assert our patent rights against these third parties (even if we were to conclude that their use infringes our patents with competing offerings), unless any such third party asserts its patent rights against us. this limitation on our ability to assert our patent rights against others could harm our business and ability to compete. we are, and may become, involved in disputes and lawsuits that could adversely affect our business. lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. these disputes and proceedings may involve significant expense and divert the attention of management and other employees. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings for additional information. our business is subject to a variety of u.s. and international laws regarding data privacy and protection. our business is subject to federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and protection of user data. we post, on our website, our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. as internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. the introduction of new offerings by us may cause new and different regulations to apply to our business. new or increased laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing, protection, use or other treatment of information could affect our ability to use and share data, or the adoption of our cloud offerings by customers. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data policies and practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines and penalties, a governmental order could require that we change our data policies and practices. compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue. noncompliance could result in penalties being imposed on us or orders that we cease conducting the noncompliant activity. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws, government regulations or directives, or industry self-regulatory principles, or a requirement to change our data practices could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 29 table of contents if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our business could be adversely affected. our contracts with our customers may include specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various government certification requirements, procurements regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us or our channel partners to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations by us or our channel partners could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we may be subject to qui tam litigation, the process by which a private individual sues or prosecutes on behalf of the government relating to government contracts and shares in the proceeds of any successful litigation or settlement, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business and affect our ability to compete for new contracts. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, if we are unable to meet government certification requirements, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. we provide offerings, such as openshift by red hat, that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities. the law relating to the liability of providers of these online offerings for activities of their users is relatively unsettled and still developing both in the u.s. and internationally and may be significantly different from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. claims could be brought against us based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our customers. in addition, we could be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates applicable law. risks related to financial uncertainty our quarterly and annual operating results may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance. due to the unpredictability of the it spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. if, among other considerations, our future financial performance falls below the expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented approximately 42.8% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2015, continue to expand. our international operations accounted for approximately 42.8% of total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2015. as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource or supplement general and 30 table of contents administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize offerings for a significant number of international markets, which may adversely affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business globally that may adversely affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; pricing environments; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; laws and policies of the u.s. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners; lower levels of availability or use of the internet, through which our software is often delivered; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights globally due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, legal, cultural and other differences; different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with the our brands; export and import laws and regulations that could prevent us from delivering our offerings into and from certain countries; public health risks and natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers that could affect the competitive pricing of our offerings and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets that could adversely affect our business in those markets or result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenue associated with them. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from our red hat enterprise linux platform. during our fiscal year ended february 28, 2015, a substantial portion of our subscription revenue was derived from our red hat enterprise linux offerings. although we are continuing to develop other offerings, we expect that revenue from red hat enterprise linux will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. declines and variability in demand for red hat enterprise linux could occur as a result of: competitive products and pricing; failure to release new or enhanced versions of red hat enterprise linux on a timely basis, or at all; technological change that we are unable to address with red hat enterprise linux; or future economic conditions. 31 table of contents additionally, as more customers and potential customers virtualize their data centers and move computing projects to cloud environments, demand for operating systems such as red hat enterprise linux may decline. moreover, as data centers become more virtualized and move to cloud environments, we may experience a decline in growth if we are unsuccessful in adapting our business model and offerings accordingly. due to the concentration of our revenue from red hat enterprise linux, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected by a decline in demand for red hat enterprise linux. we are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the u.s. dollar may affect our revenue, operating expenses and operating margins, which are reported in u.s. dollars. we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. as we expand international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations may increase. we use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to economically hedge currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. if these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. for information regarding our hedging activity, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. the results of an audit or litigation could adversely affect our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could adversely affect our tax expense and cash flows. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. 32 table of contents if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls. we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet these requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our offerings, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial condition of our business could be adversely affected; current and potential future stockholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects, including changes to previously filed financial statements, which could cause our stock to decline. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these principles are subject to interpretation by the securities and exchange commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. a change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and illiquidity risks and fluctuations in the market value of our investments and interest rates. these risks may result in an impairment of, or the loss of all or a portion of, the value of our investments, an inability to sell our investments or a decline in interest income. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. our portfolio as of february 28, 2015 consisted primarily of money market funds, u.s. government and agency securities, european sovereign and agency securities with a rating of aa or higher, certificates of deposit, and corporate securities. although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the risks associated with our investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security or issuer, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value or become impaired, or that our interest income will not decline. 33 table of contents a significant part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government and agency securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a default or downgrade of u.s. government or agency debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. future fluctuations in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could record additional impairment charges and lose some or all of the principal value of investments in our portfolio. a total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. some of these investments may have been made to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. our investments in private companies are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose the value of our entire investment in these companies. epidemics, geo-political events, internet and power outages or natural disasters could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. the occurrence of one or more epidemics, geo-political events (such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks), internet and power outages or natural disasters in a country in which we operate or in which technology industry suppliers or our customers are located, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of our customers to access our offerings, the inability of our associates to reach or have transportation to our facilities directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of our customers, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of computer hardware and related components, the disruption or delay in the manufacture and transport of goods globally, the disruption of utility services to our facilities or to suppliers, partners or customers, or disruption in our communications with our customers. risks related to the convertible notes the convertible notes are effectively subordinated to any secured debt we incur in the future and to any liabilities of our subsidiaries. in october 2014, we issued $805.0 million of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the convertible notes ). the convertible notes will rank senior in right of payment to any of our indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the convertible notes; equal in right of payment to any of our existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities that are not so subordinated; effectively junior in right of payment to any of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and structurally junior to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries (including trade payables). in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding up, our assets that secure debt ranking senior in right of payment to the convertible notes will be available to pay obligations on the convertible notes only after the secured debt has been repaid in full from these assets, and the assets of our subsidiaries will be available to pay obligations on the convertible notes only after all claims senior to the convertible notes have been repaid in full. there may not be sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the convertible notes then outstanding. 34 table of contents we may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions that could diminish our ability to make payments on the convertible notes. we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our future debt instruments, some of which may be secured debt. we are not restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the convertible notes when due. we may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the convertible notes in cash, repay the convertible notes at maturity or repurchase the convertible notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the convertible notes. holders of the convertible notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their convertible notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the convertible notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. in addition, upon conversion of the convertible notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the convertible notes being converted. however, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of the convertible notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to the convertible notes being converted or at their maturity. in addition, our ability to repurchase or to pay cash upon conversions of the convertible notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority or agreements governing our future indebtedness and is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our failure to repurchase the convertible notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the convertible notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. a fundamental change under the indenture or a default under the indenture could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. if the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the convertible notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. the conditional conversion feature of the convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. in the event the conditional conversion feature of the convertible notes is triggered, holders of the convertible notes will be entitled to convert the convertible notes at any time during specified periods at their option. if one or more holders elect to convert their convertible notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. in addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their convertible notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the convertible notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. the accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the convertible notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. accounting standards codification subtopic 470-20, debt with conversion and other options ( asc 470-20 ), requires an entity to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a 35 table of contents manner that reflects the issuer non-convertible debt interest rate. accordingly, the equity component of the convertible notes is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the convertible notes. as a result, we are required to recognize a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in our consolidated income statements in the current and future periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the convertible notes to their principal amount over the term of the convertible notes. we will report lower net income (or greater net losses) in our consolidated financial results because asc 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period amortization of the original issue discount and the instrument non-convertible interest rate. this could adversely affect our reported or future consolidated financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the convertible notes. in addition, under certain circumstances, in calculating earnings per share, convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, if any, are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the convertible notes exceeds their principal amount. under the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share is calculated as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, were issued. we cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. if we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, if any, then our diluted consolidated earnings per share would be adversely affected. the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. in connection with the sale of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with institutions that we refer to as the option counterparties. we also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties pursuant to which we sold warrants for the purchase of our common stock. the convertible note hedge transactions are expected to offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount upon conversion of any convertible notes. the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the relevant warrants, unless, subject to certain conditions, we elect to settle the warrants in cash. the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the convertible notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of convertible notes or following any repurchase of convertible notes by us in connection with any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). this activity could suppress or inflate the market price of our common stock. we do not make any representation or prediction as to the direction or magnitude of any potential effect that the transactions described above may have on the price of the convertible notes or our common stock. in addition, we do not make any representation that the option counterparties or their respective affiliates will engage in these transactions or that these transactions, once commenced, will not be discontinued without notice. we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. the option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that these option counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. if one or more of the option counterparties to one or more of our convertible note hedge transactions becomes subject to insolvency 36 table of contents proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in the volatility of the market price of our common stock. in addition, upon a default by one of the option counterparties, we may suffer dilution with respect to our common stock as well as adverse financial consequences. we can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the option counterparties. risks related to ownership of our common stock our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new offerings by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, news reports relating to trends in our markets, general economic conditions and other risks listed herein. the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock and thereby materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, shares of our common stock. if we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for instruments issued under our equity compensation plans, including for the issuance upon the exercise of stock options and the vesting of performance share units, restricted stock, restricted stock units and deferred stock units, upon conversion of the convertible notes, and in relation to the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the convertible notes. we may not be able to predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. the issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity or equity-linked securities. we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to changes in the value of our common stock. we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. we currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. in addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock may be prohibited or limited by the terms of any future debt financing arrangement. any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of our stock price. 37 table of contents conversion of the convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their convertible notes, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock. the conversion of the convertible notes into shares of our common stock, to the extent that we choose not to deliver all cash for the conversion value, will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants due to this dilution or may facilitate trading strategies involving the convertible notes and our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, delaware law and the convertible notes may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. these provisions include: our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders meeting; such provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock; the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware law anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. additionally, certain provisions of the convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us or could also have the effect of delaying or reducing the likelihood of a change in control of us even if such acquisition or change of control may be favorable to our stockholders. 38 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of short-term and long-term investments in a variety of available-for-sale fixed and floating rate debt securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income related to these securities may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities which have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or perceived credit risk related to the securities issuers. a hypothetical one-half percentage point change in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in a $0.4 million change in annual interest income derived from investments in our portfolio as of february 28, 2015. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2015 and february 28, 2014, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 18 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. investment risk the fair market value of our investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage increase in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in an approximate $15.2 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 28, 2015. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2015 and february 28, 2014, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 18 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. credit risk investments in debt and equity securities the fair market values of our investment portfolio and cash balances are exposed to counterparty credit risk. accordingly, while we periodically review our portfolio in an effort to mitigate counterparty risk, the principal values of our cash balances, money market accounts and investments in available-for-sale securities could suffer a loss of value. accounts receivable as of february 28, 2015 and february 28, 2014, no individual customer accounted for 10% or more of the company accounts receivable. foreign currency risk approximately 42.8% of our revenue for the year ended february 28, 2015 was produced by sales outside the u.s. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of net income. the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at 66 table of contents the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations decreases if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. using the average foreign currency exchange rates from our prior fiscal year ended february 28, 2014, our revenue and operating expenses from non-u.s. operations for the year ended february 28, 2015 would have been higher than we reported by approximately $35.9 million and $28.9 million, respectively, which would have resulted in income from operations being higher by $7.0 million. convertible notes in october 2014, we issued $805.0 million of 0.25% convertible notes due 2019. the convertible notes have a fixed annual interest rate of 0.25%, and therefore we do not have economic interest rate exposure on the convertible notes. however, the fair market value of the convertible notes is exposed to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of the convertible notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. for further discussion regarding the fair value of the convertible notes, see note 22 convertible notes to our consolidated financial statements. in connection with the sale of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions. the convertible note hedge transactions are expected to offset the potential dilution with respect to shares of our common stock upon any conversion of the convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments that we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of the converted notes, as the case may be. the warrant transactions will have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the warrant transactions, exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. however, subject to certain conditions, we may elect to settle all of the warrants in cash. the initial strike price of the warrants is $101.65 per share. the number of shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is 10,965,630 shares, subject to anti-dilution adjustments. the convertible note hedge and warrants are both considered indexed to our common stock and classified as equity; therefore, the convertible note hedge and warrants are not accounted for as derivative instruments. derivative instruments we transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. from time to time we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. all derivative instruments are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their respective fair market values. we have elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify our forward contracts for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in our consolidated statements of operations. for further discussion related to our management of foreign currency risk see note 10 derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2015 was $108.1 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2015 was a gross $0.1 million asset and a gross $0.7 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. the forward contracts generally expire within three months of the period ended february 28, 2015. the forward contracts will settle in australian dollars, euros, hong kong dollars, japanese yen, norwegian krona, singapore dollars, swedish krona, swiss francs and u.s. dollars. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2014 was $28.3 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2014 was a gross $0.1 million asset and a gross less than $0.1 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. 67 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. please carefully consider the following risks and cautionary statements. if any event related to the following risk factors occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. risks related to business uncertainty we face intense competition. the enterprise software industry is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and is subject to changing technologies, shifting customer needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. we compete based on our ability to provide our customers with enterprise software and related service offerings that best meet their needs at a compelling price. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors products may provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our offerings. competitive pressures could also affect the prices we may charge or the demand for our offerings, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market share. our current and potential competitors range from large and well-established companies to emerging start-ups. some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and name recognition, larger development and sales staffs and more extensive marketing and distribution capabilities. certain competitors also bundle hardware and software offerings, making it more difficult for us to penetrate their customer bases. as the enterprise software industry evolves, the competitive pressure for us to innovate encompasses a wider range of products and services, including new offerings that require different expertise than our current offerings. some competitors may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can. moreover, if we are unable to effectively communicate the value of our subscription model, we may not compete effectively in attracting new, and maintaining existing, customers. given the rapid evolving nature of the enterprise software industry, the competitive landscape and the nature of the competition is constantly changing. industry consolidation may affect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete. moreover, other companies may currently be planning to or are under pressure by stockholders to divest businesses. these divestitures may result in additional competitors that may have an advantage by focusing on a single product or service. we also compete in certain areas with our partners and potential partners, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. our efforts to compete effectively may not be sufficient, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry. investment in new offerings, business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, such as the transition of many of our enterprise customers to cloud computing environments and frequent new product and service announcements. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies and user preferences, to adapt our offerings to evolving industry standards, to predict user preferences and industry changes and to improve the performance and reliability of our offerings. our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business, and our efforts to adapt to such changes could require substantial expenditures on our part to modify our offerings or infrastructure. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings and technologies could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and 18 table of contents could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings and technologies. the success of new and enhanced offering introductions depends on several factors, including our ability to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings in a timely manner, successfully promote the offerings, manage the risks associated with the offerings, make sufficient resources available to support the offerings and address any quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. even if we are able to enhance our existing offerings or introduce new offerings that are well perceived by the market, if our marketing or sales efforts do not generate interest in or sales for these offerings they may be unsuccessful. moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and technology road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading cloud service providers, hardware original equipment manufacturers, independent software vendors and system integrators, such as amazon.com, inc., cisco systems, inc., dell inc., fujitsu limited, hewlett packard enterprise company, international business machines corporation, microsoft corporation, nec corporation, oracle corporation, sap ag and others. many of these strategic partners have engineered and certified that their technologies run on or with our offerings and, in some cases, have built their products and solutions using our offerings. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms in the future. some of our strategic partners offer competing products and services. as a result of these factors, many of the companies with which we have strategic alliances may choose to pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our offerings, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our offerings effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. as our agreements with strategic partners terminate or expire, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. we rely, to a significant degree, on indirect sales channels for the distribution of our offerings, and disruption within these channels could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we use a variety of different indirect distribution methods for our offerings, including channel partners, such as certified cloud service providers, distributors, embedded technology partners, hardware original equipment manufacturers, independent software vendors, system integrators and value added resellers. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of channel partners with whom we have no direct relationship. these relationships allow us to offer our technologies to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we rely, to a significant degree, on each of our channel partners to select, screen and maintain relationships with its distribution network and to distribute our offerings in a manner that is consistent with applicable law and regulatory requirements and our quality standards. if our channel partners or a partner in its distribution network violate applicable law or regulatory requirements or misrepresent the functionality of our offerings, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to potential liability. furthermore, our channel partners may offer their own products and services or the products and services of other companies that compete with our 19 table of contents offerings or may not distribute and market our offerings effectively. moreover, our existing channel partner relationships do not, and any future channel partner relationships may not, provide for any exclusivity regarding marketing or distribution. in addition, if a channel partner is acquired by a competitor, its business units are reorganized or divested or its financial conditions were to weaken, our revenue derived from that partner may be adversely impacted. recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our enterprise technologies requires significant time and resources. if we fail to devote sufficient resources to support and expand our network of channel partners, our business may be adversely affected. in addition, because we rely on channel partners for the indirect distribution of our enterprise technologies, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate end-users of our technologies, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our software, support ongoing customer requirements, estimate end-user demand, respond to evolving customer needs and obtain subscription renewals from end-users. a portion of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through our channel partners. government entities may have statutory, contractual, or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our channel partners for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future operating results. governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our offerings, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. if our indirect distribution channel is disrupted, we may be required to devote more resources to distribute our offerings directly and support our customers, which may not be as effective and could lead to higher costs, reduced revenue and growth that is slower than expected. the duration and extent of economic downturns, regional financial instability, and economic and market conditions in general could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. economic weakness and uncertainty, tightened credit markets and constrained it spending from time to time contribute to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the industries of our customers and the geographic regions in which we operate, which may result in reduced demand and increased price competition for our offerings. our operating results in one or more geographic regions or customer industries may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region or industry. continuing uncertainty about future economic conditions may, among other things, negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases or lengthen our sales cycle. adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, such conditions may impact our investment portfolio, and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. also, such conditions may make it more difficult to forecast operating results. if global economic conditions, or economic conditions in the u.s., europe, asia or in other key geographic regions or customer industries, were to remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, current and prospective customers may delay or reduce their it spending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 20 table of contents we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, divert management attention, adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows or dilute stockholder value. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions, and we may continue to do so in the future. these types of transactions can increase the expense of running our business and present significant challenges and risks, including: identifying acquisition targets that complement our strategic direction and technology road map; integrating the acquired business accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and reporting, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; gathering full information regarding a business or technology prior to a transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected tax implications and other adverse effects on our business; increasing or additional operating expenses related to the acquired business or technology; maintaining or establishing acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; disrupting of our ongoing business and distraction of management; impairing relationships with our employees, partners or customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel, products or technology or as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape affected by the transaction; maintaining good relationships with customers or business partners of the acquired business; effectively evaluating talent at an acquired business or cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired business into our organization; losing key employees of the acquired business; incorporating and further developing acquired products or technology into our offerings and maintaining quality standards consistent with our brands; achieving the expected benefits of the transaction, which may include generating greater market acceptance of our technologies, increasing our revenues or integrating the assets acquired into one or more of our current offerings; incurring expenses related to the transaction; assuming claims and liabilities from the acquired business or technology, or that are otherwise related to the transaction; entering into new markets in which we have little or no experience or in which competitors may have stronger market positions; impairing of intangible assets and goodwill acquired in transactions; and for foreign transactions, managing additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing transactions that we have pursued or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in 21 table of contents addition, in pursuing and completing such transactions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, or we may incur substantial debt. we could also issue additional securities as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. any transaction may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, or may take longer to do so than expected, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years. for example, our total revenue increased from $1.79 billion for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2015 to $2.05 billion for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2016. moreover, the total number of our employees increased from approximately 7,300 as of february 28, 2015 to approximately 8,800 as of february 29, 2016. in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully provide our offerings and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources, internal controls and oversight from our senior management. as we expand in international markets, these challenges increase as a result of the need to support a growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, dispute resolution systems, regulatory systems and commercial practices. as we grow, (i) we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise, manage or develop sufficient personnel, and (ii) we may not be able to develop or effectively manage our controls, oversight functions or information systems. if we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. industry consolidation and divestitures may lead to increased competition and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. there has been a trend of both consolidation and divestitures in the technology industry. we expect these trends to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry. for example, as the computing, networking, storage, and software technologies that comprise the enterprise data center converge, many companies seek to position themselves as key or single-source vendors providing end-to-end technology solutions for the data center. also, some of our current and potential competitors have made acquisitions or announced new strategic alliances designed to position them as a key or single-source vendor. as a result of these developments, we face greater competition, including competition from entities that are among our key business partners. this increased competition could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we depend on our key non-management employees, and our inability to attract and retain such employees could adversely affect our business or diminish our brands. competition in our industry for qualified employees, especially technical employees, is intense and our competitors directly target our employees. our inability to attract and retain key employees could hinder our influence in open source projects and seriously impede our success. moreover, the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish our brands. we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we may experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited, that they have divulged proprietary or other confidential information, or that their former employers own their inventions or other work product. 22 table of contents a number of our key employees have become, or will become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly appreciated in value. additionally, as we grow, there may be less equity compensation to award per employee. if we do not succeed in attracting and retaining key personnel, our business, financial performance, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain capable management. our future success depends on the continued services and effectiveness of a number of key management personnel. the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, could adversely affect our business or stock price. our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent that other companies are able to offer more attractive opportunities to the individuals we seek to hire or retain. in addition, historically we have used share-based compensation as a key component of our compensation packages. changes in the accounting for share-based compensation could adversely affect our earnings or make it more beneficial for us to use more cash compensation to attract and retain capable personnel. if the price of our common stock falls, the value of our share-based awards to recipients is reduced. such events, or if we are unable to secure stockholder approval for increases in the number of shares eligible for share-based compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key management personnel could hinder our strategic planning and execution. because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry into the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone may modify and redistribute the existing open source software and use it to compete with us. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions or acquire a smaller business that has developed open source offerings that compete with our offerings, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our offerings. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. additionally, any failure by us to provide high-quality technical support, or the perception that we do not provide high-quality technical support, could harm our reputation and negatively impact our ability to sell subscriptions for our open source offerings to existing and prospective customers. if we are unable to differentiate our open source offerings from those of our competitors or compete effectively with other open source offerings, our business, financial condition, operation results and cash flows could be adversely affected. our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and collaboration fostered by our culture, and our business may be adversely affected. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and collaboration. as our organization grows, our employees (including remote workers) and our resources become more globally dispersed and our organizational management structures become more 23 table of contents complex, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain these beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees, continue to perform at current levels or execute on our business strategy. as a result, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. our emerging technology offerings are based on developing technologies and business models, and the potential market for these offerings remains uncertain. our emerging technology offerings, which include our cloud, mobile and storage offerings, are based on developing technologies and business models, the success of which will depend on the technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the adoption of these technologies. these technologies are rapidly evolving, and their development is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment as well as the accurate anticipation of technology trends, market demand and customer needs. we expect competition to remain intense and, as with many emerging it sectors, these technologies may be subject to a first mover effect pursuant to which certain product offerings rapidly capture a significant portion of market share and developer attention. moreover, we may make errors in reacting to relevant business trends and predicting which technologies are successful or otherwise develop into industry standards. adoption of emerging technologies may occur more slowly or less pervasively than we expect and the revenue growth associated with these offerings may be slower than currently expected. moreover, even if emerging technologies are adopted widely by enterprises, our offerings in these areas may not attract a sufficient number of users or generate attractive financial results. we incur expenses associated with these offerings in advance of our ability to generate associated revenue. demand for our emerging technology offerings may unfavorably impact demand for our other offerings, including software subscriptions and related professional services. if the market for our emerging technologies offerings fails to develop adequately, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our business model may encounter customer resistance or we may experience a decline in the demand for our offerings. we provide red hat enterprise technologies primarily under annual or multi-year subscriptions. a subscription generally entitles a customer to, among other things, a specified level of support, as well as security updates, fixes, functionality enhancements, upgrades to the technologies, each, if and when available, and compatibility with an ecosystem of certified hardware and software. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, customers may fail to honor the terms of our subscription agreements. demand for our offerings depends substantially on the general demand for enterprise software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. in addition, our customers generally undertake a significant evaluation process that may result in a lengthy sales cycle. we spend substantial time, effort, and money on our sales efforts, including developing and implementing appropriate go-to-market strategies and training our sales force and channel partners in order to effectively market new offerings, without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. the purchase of our offerings may be discretionary and can involve significant expenditures. if our current and prospective customers cut costs, then they may significantly reduce their enterprise software expenditures. as technologies and the markets for our enterprise offerings change, our annual or multi-year subscription-based business model may no longer meet the needs of our customers. for example, a business model based on annual or multi-year subscriptions may no longer be competitive in an environment where disruptive technologies (such as cloud computing) enable customers to consume computing resources on an hourly basis or 24 table of contents for free. we also develop and offer these disruptive technologies with consumption-based pricing, which may have an effect on the demand for our subscription-based offerings. an increased focus on developing and providing emerging technology offerings may require a greater focus on marketing more holistic solutions, rather than individual offerings. consequently, we may need to develop appropriate marketing and pricing strategies for our offerings, our customers purchasing decisions may become more complex and require additional levels of approval and the duration of sales cycles for our offerings may increase. if we are unable to adapt our business model to changes in the marketplace or if demand for our offerings declines, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. if our customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, or if they renew on less favorable terms, our business, financial results, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. our customers may not renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower-priced edition of our offerings or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower-priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make their products and services compatible with our offerings, our software may cease to be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. the competitive position of our offerings is dependent on their compatibility with products and services of third-party enterprise hardware and software companies. to the extent that a hardware or software vendor might have or develop products and services that compete with ours, the vendor may have an incentive to seek to limit the performance, functionality or compatibility of our offerings when used with one or more of the vendor offerings. in addition, these vendors may fail to support or issue statements of compatibility or certification of our offerings when used with their offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to our offerings, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various third-party hardware and software offerings by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware and software vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our offerings may not be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new technologies, adequately enhance our existing technologies or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our enterprise technologies. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which 25 table of contents is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our offerings or we would need to develop and enhance our offerings with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our technology release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our offerings could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. our offerings may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our enterprise technologies and expose us to claims and litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and may continue to be found in our offerings after deployment. this risk is increased by the fact that much of the code in our offerings is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them, and we may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. errors and failures in our offerings could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our enterprise technologies, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince enterprise users of the benefits of our technologies. in addition, errors in our technologies could cause system failures, loss of data or other adverse effects for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our agreements with our customers often contain provisions which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. while we seek to insure against these types of claims, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to such claims. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, operating results and cash flows. our continued success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance strong brands. we believe that the brand identities that we have developed have contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to expanding our customer and partner base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brands, we may be required to make further investments that may not be successful. maintaining our brands will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high-quality offerings. if we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. security breaches and data loss may expose us to liability, harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. our business involves the production and distribution of enterprise software technologies, as well as hosting applications. as part of our business, we (or third parties with whom we contract) receive, store and process our data, as well as our customers and partners data. while we take security and testing measures relating to our offerings and operations, those measures may not prevent security breaches and data loss that could harm our business or the businesses of our customers and partners. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate technology or facility security measures or other factors may result in data loss or a compromise or breach of our systems and the data we receive, store and process (or systems and the data received, stored and processed by third parties with whom we contract). these security measures may be 26 table of contents breached or data lost as a result of actions by third parties, employee error (such as weak passwords or unencrypted devices), malfeasance or vulnerabilities or security bugs found in software code. a party who is able to circumvent security measures or exploit inadequacies in security measures, could, among other things, misappropriate proprietary information (including information about our employees, customers and partners, our customers information, financial data and data that others could use to compete against us), cause the loss or disclosure of some or all of this information, cause interruptions or denial of service in our or our customers operations, cause delays in development efforts or expose customers (and their customers) to computer viruses or other disruptions or vulnerabilities. a compromise to these systems could remain undetected for an extended period of time, exacerbating the impact of that compromise. these risks may increase as we continue to grow our cloud, mobile and services offerings and as we receive, store and process more of our customers data. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to regulatory investigations, claims against us by customers, partners or other third parties, or costs, such as those related to providing customer notifications and fraud monitoring. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. moreover, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any loss of data or compromise of our systems or the data we receive, store or process (or systems and the data received, stored and processed by third parties with whom we contract) could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings, damage our reputation, loss of channel or strategic partners, lead to legal liability and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we are vulnerable to technology infrastructure failures, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, and the technology infrastructure of third parties, for many functions, including selling our offerings, supporting our partners, fulfilling orders and billing, and collecting and making payments. this technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer intrusions, vulnerabilities and viruses, software errors, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of the systems making up this infrastructure are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for every eventuality. this technology infrastructure may fail or be vulnerable to damage or interruption because of actions by third parties or employee error or malfeasance. we may not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of technology infrastructure failures or to cover all contingencies. any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers or partners may cause a reduction in customer or partner satisfaction levels, which in turn could cause additional claims, reduced revenue or loss of customers or partners. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, a loss of data, loss of confidence in the stability and reliability of our offerings, damage to our reputation, and legal liability, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows interruptions. a decline in or reprioritization of funding in the u.s. or foreign government budgets or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we derive, and expect to continue to derive, a portion of our revenue from u.s. and foreign governments. government deficit reduction and austerity measures, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on u.s. and foreign government spending. the termination of, or delayed or reduced funding for, government-sponsored programs and contracts from which we derive revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 27 table of contents we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our offerings, damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. if we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our offerings but competing technology becomes more widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our offerings may be reduced and that could harm our reputation, diminish our brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we include software licensed from other parties in our offerings, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay availability of our offerings. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties in our offerings. aspects of our business could be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were no longer available to us, no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms or changed in ways or included defects that make the third-party software unsuitable for our use. in these cases, we would be required to either redesign our technologies to function with software available from other parties, develop these components ourselves or eliminate the functionality, which could result in increased costs, the need to mitigate customer issues, delays in delivery of our offerings and the release of new offerings and limit the features available in our current or future offerings. risks related to legal uncertainty if our technologies are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we may be required to take costly and time-consuming actions to meet our commitments to customers. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our offerings are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the technology consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the technology so that its use is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and defend them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and we often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying these commitments could be costly, be time-consuming, divert the attention of technical and management personnel, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. finally, because we have agreed to defend our subscription customers against specified infringement claims arising from the use of our offerings, we could become involved in litigation brought against such customers if our services and technology are allegedly implicated. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights and an unfavorable legal decision affecting our intellectual property could adversely affect our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, because our technologies are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. we are also unlikely to be able to assess adequately the relevance of patents to our technologies, and may be unable to take appropriate responsive action in a timely or economic manner because, among other reasons, the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined or readily determinable, patent applications in the u.s. are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing. our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may increase as a result of acquisitions. in 28 table of contents addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition of such technology. in the past, our technologies have been subject to intellectual property infringement claims. some of these claims have been brought by entities that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement. as these entities do not have operating businesses of their own and therefore have limited risk of counterclaims for damages or injunctive relief, it may be difficult to deter them from bringing intellectual property infringement claims. we expect to face the possibility of more intellectual property infringement claims as our prominence increases, business activities expand, market share and revenue grow, the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products in different portions of the industry overlap. we may not be able to accurately assess the risk related to these suits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. defending patent and other intellectual property claims, even claims without significant merit, can be time-consuming, costly and can divert the attention of technical and management personnel. we may receive unfavorable preliminary or interim rulings in the course of litigation, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. we may decide to settle certain lawsuits and disputes on terms that are disadvantageous to us. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease offering certain of our technologies or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue offering technologies found to be in violation of a third party rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. as a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or practices or discontinue the practices. the development of alternative non-infringing technology or practices could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. an unfavorable legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings for additional information. our activities, or the activities of our partners, may violate anti-corruption laws and regulations that apply to us. in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations that may apply to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to help promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, partners and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any violation of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of software could adversely impact our business. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to import and export restrictions and regulations, including the export administration regulations administered by the u.s. commerce department bureau of industry and security ( bis ) and the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control ( ofac ). the u.s., through the bis and ofac, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons ( denied parties ). violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products or services to the federal government. 29 table of contents any such penalties could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. in addition, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant expense and reputational harm and distract senior executives from managing our normal day-to-day operations. our products could also be shipped to denied parties by third parties, including our channel partners. even though we take precautions to ensure that our channel partners comply with all relevant import and export regulations, any failure by our channel partners to comply with such regulations could have negative consequences for us, including reputational harm, government investigations and penalties. we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our technologies are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. additionally, if any of the open source components of our offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, then our ability to distribute or develop all or a portion of our offerings could be adversely impacted. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may become incompatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from distributing the software code subject to the modified license. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our collection of trademarks is valuable and important to our business. the protective steps we have taken in the past may have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in various countries around the world. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to distribute our offerings. we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy one or more of our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our technologies could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our technology innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be adversely affected as the community supports the ability to write and share code freely. this in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our technologies and further our research and development efforts, and could adversely affect our business. 30 table of contents our patent promise on software patents limits our ability to enforce our patent rights in certain circumstances. as part of our commitment to the open source community, we provide our patent promise on software patents. under our patent promise, we agree, subject to certain limitations, to not enforce our patent rights against users of open source software covered by certain open source licenses, including the gnu general public license version 2.0 and version 3.0, gnu lesser general public license version 2.1 and version 3.0, ibm public license version 1.0, common public license version 1.0, q public license version 1.0, open software license version 3.0 and any other open source license granted by red hat. while we may be able to claim protection of our intellectual property under other rights, such as trade secrets or contractual rights, our patent promise effectively limits our ability to assert our patent rights against these third parties (even if we were to conclude that their use infringes our patents with competing offerings), unless any such third party asserts its patent rights against us. this limitation on our ability to assert our patent rights against others could harm our business and ability to compete. we are, and may become, involved in disputes and lawsuits that could adversely affect our business. lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. these disputes and proceedings may involve significant expense and divert the attention of management and other employees. if we do not prevail in these matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings for additional information. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations regarding data privacy and protection, our business could be adversely affected. our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations that apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and processing of personal data. these data privacy- and protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. for example, in october 2015, the european court of justice invalidated the u.s. eu safe harbor framework. the safe harbor framework had established a lawful method for the transfer of personal data from the european economic area ( eea ) to the u.s. the decision of the european court of justice has resulted in increased uncertainty and greater complexity and risk relating to transfers of personal data from the eea to the u.s. any failure by us to comply with data privacy- and protection-related laws and regulations could result in enforcement actions, significant penalties or other legal actions against us or our customers or suppliers. an actual or alleged failure to comply, which could result in negative publicity, reduce demand for our offerings, increase the cost of compliance, require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue, restrict our ability to provide our offerings in certain locations, result in our customers inability to use our offerings and prohibit data transfers or result in other claims, liabilities or sanctions, including fines, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our business could be adversely affected. our contracts with our customers may include specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various government certification requirements, procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us or our channel partners to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations by us or our channel partners could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and 31 table of contents suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we may be subject to qui tam litigation, the process by which a private individual sues or prosecutes on behalf of the government relating to government contracts and shares in the proceeds of any successful litigation or settlement, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business and affect our ability to compete for new contracts. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, if we are unable to meet government certification requirements, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. we provide offerings, such as openshift by red hat, that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities. the law relating to the liability of providers of these online offerings for activities of their users is relatively unsettled and still developing both in the u.s. and internationally and may be significantly different from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. claims could be brought against us based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our customers. in addition, we could be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates applicable law. risks related to financial uncertainty our quarterly and annual operating results may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance. due to the unpredictability of the it spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. additionally, a significant portion of our quarterly sales typically occur during the last weeks of the quarter and our revenue and operating results may be adversely impacted if we are unable to process an increasing number of transactions by the end of the quarter. if, among other considerations, our future financial performance falls below the expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented approximately 40.9% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2016, continue to expand. our international operations accounted for approximately 40.9% of total revenue for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2016. as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource or supplement general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize offerings for a significant number of international markets, which may adversely affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business globally that may adversely affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; pricing environments; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; 32 table of contents laws and policies of the u.s. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, and taxes; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners; differing technology standards and customer requirements; lower levels of availability or use of the internet, through which our software is often delivered; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights globally due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, legal, cultural and other differences; different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with the our brands; export and import laws and regulations that could prevent us from delivering our offerings into and from certain countries; public health risks and natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers that could affect the competitive pricing of our offerings and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets that could adversely affect our business in those markets or result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenue associated with them. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from our red hat enterprise linux platform. during our fiscal year ended february 29, 2016, a substantial portion of our subscription revenue was derived from our red hat enterprise linux offerings. although we are continuing to develop other offerings, we expect that revenue from red hat enterprise linux will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. declines and variability in demand for red hat enterprise linux could occur as a result of: competitive products and pricing; failure to release new or enhanced versions of red hat enterprise linux on a timely basis, or at all; technological change that we are unable to address with red hat enterprise linux; or future economic conditions. additionally, as more customers and potential customers virtualize their data centers and move computing projects to cloud environments, demand for operating systems such as red hat enterprise linux may decline. moreover, as data centers become more virtualized and move to cloud environments, we may experience a decline in growth if we are unsuccessful in adapting our business model and offerings accordingly. due to the concentration of our revenue from red hat enterprise linux, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected by a decline in demand for red hat enterprise linux. 33 table of contents we are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the u.s. dollar may affect our revenue, operating expenses and operating margins, which are reported in u.s. dollars. we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. as we expand international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations may increase. we use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to economically hedge currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. if these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. for information regarding our hedging activity, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . if our growth rate slows, our stock price could be adversely affected. as the markets for our offerings mature and the scale of our business increases, our rate of revenue, deferred revenue and operating cash flow growth may be lower than the growth rates we experienced in earlier periods. in addition, to the extent that the adoption of our offerings occurs more slowly or is less pervasive than we expect, our growth rates may slow or decline, which could adversely affect our stock price. historical period-to-period comparisons of our revenue, deferred revenue and operating cash flow may not be meaningful and are not guarantees of our future performance. we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. changes in tax laws, or in judicial or administrative interpretations of tax laws, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. the results of an audit or litigation could adversely affect our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our operating results until 34 table of contents future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls. we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet these requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our offerings, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial condition of our business could be adversely affected; current and potential future stockholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects, including changes to previously filed financial statements, which could cause our stock to decline. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these principles are subject to interpretation by the securities and exchange commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. a change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. our investment portfolio is subject to credit and liquidity risks and fluctuations in the market value of our investments and interest rates. these risks may result in an impairment of, or the loss of all or a portion of, the value of our investments, an inability to sell our investments or a decline in interest income. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. our portfolio as of february 29, 2016 consisted primarily of money market funds, u.s. government and agency securities, european sovereign and agency securities with a rating of aa or higher, certificates of deposit, and corporate securities. 35 table of contents although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the risks associated with our investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security or issuer, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value or become impaired, or that our interest income will not decline. a significant part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government and agency securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a default or downgrade of u.s. government or agency debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. future fluctuations and uncertainty in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could record additional impairment charges and lose some or all of the principal value of investments in our portfolio. a total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. some of these investments may have been made to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. our investments in private companies are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose the value of our entire investment in these companies. epidemics, geo-political events, internet and power outages or natural disasters could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. the occurrence of one or more epidemics, geo-political events (such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks), internet and power outages or natural disasters in a country in which we operate or in which technology industry suppliers or our customers are located, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of our customers to access our offerings, the inability of our associates to reach or have transportation to our facilities or our customers facilities directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of our customers, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of computer hardware and related components, the disruption or delay in the manufacture and transport of goods globally, the disruption of utility services to our facilities or to suppliers, partners or customers, or disruption in our communications with our customers. risks related to the convertible notes the convertible notes are effectively subordinated to any secured debt we incur in the future and to any liabilities of our subsidiaries. in october 2014, we issued $805.0 million of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the convertible notes ). the convertible notes will rank senior in right of payment to any of our indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the convertible notes; equal in right of payment to any of our existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities that are not so subordinated; effectively junior in right of payment to any of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and structurally junior to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries (including trade payables). in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding up, our assets that secure debt ranking senior in right of payment to the convertible notes will be available to pay obligations on the convertible notes 36 table of contents only after the secured debt has been repaid in full from these assets, and the assets of our subsidiaries will be available to pay obligations on the convertible notes only after all claims senior to the convertible notes have been repaid in full. there may not be sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the convertible notes then outstanding. we may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions that could diminish our ability to make payments on the convertible notes. we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our future debt instruments, some of which may be secured debt. we are not restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the convertible notes when due. we may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the convertible notes in cash, repay the convertible notes at maturity or repurchase the convertible notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the convertible notes. holders of the convertible notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their convertible notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the convertible notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. in addition, upon conversion of the convertible notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the convertible notes being converted. however, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of the convertible notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to the convertible notes being converted or at their maturity. in addition, our ability to repurchase or to pay cash upon conversions of the convertible notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority or agreements governing our future indebtedness and is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our failure to repurchase the convertible notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the convertible notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. a fundamental change under the indenture or a default under the indenture could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. if the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the convertible notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. the conditional conversion feature of the convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. in the event the conditional conversion feature of the convertible notes is triggered, holders of the convertible notes will be entitled to convert the convertible notes at any time during specified periods at their option. if one or more holders elect to convert their convertible notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. in addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their convertible notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the convertible notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. 37 table of contents the accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the convertible notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. accounting standards codification subtopic 470-20, debt with conversion and other options ( asc 470-20 ), requires an entity to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer non-convertible debt interest rate. accordingly, the equity component of the convertible notes is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the convertible notes. as a result, we are required to recognize a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in our consolidated income statements in the current and future periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the convertible notes to their principal amount over the term of the convertible notes. we will report lower net income (or greater net losses) in our consolidated financial results because asc 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period amortization of the original issue discount and the instrument non-convertible interest rate. this could adversely affect our reported or future consolidated financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the convertible notes. in addition, under certain circumstances, in calculating earnings per share, convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, if any, are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the convertible notes exceeds their principal amount. under the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share is calculated as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, were issued. we cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. if we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, if any, then our diluted consolidated earnings per share would be adversely affected. the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. in connection with the sale of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with institutions that we refer to as the option counterparties. we also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties pursuant to which we sold warrants for the purchase of our common stock. the convertible note hedge transactions are expected to offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount upon conversion of any convertible notes. the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the relevant warrants, unless, subject to certain conditions, we elect to settle the warrants in cash. the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the convertible notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of convertible notes or following any repurchase of convertible notes by us in connection with any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). this activity could suppress or inflate the market price of our common stock. we do not make any representation or prediction as to the direction or magnitude of any potential effect that the transactions described above may have on the price of the convertible notes or our common stock. in addition, we do not make any representation that the option counterparties or their respective affiliates will engage in these transactions or that these transactions, once commenced, will not be discontinued without notice. 38 table of contents we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. the option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that these option counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. if one or more of the option counterparties to one or more of our convertible note hedge transactions becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in the volatility of the market price of our common stock. in addition, upon a default by one of the option counterparties, we may suffer dilution with respect to our common stock as well as adverse financial consequences. we can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the option counterparties. risks related to ownership of our common stock our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new offerings by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, news reports relating to trends in our markets, the commencement or termination of any share repurchase program, general economic conditions and other risks listed herein. the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock and thereby materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, shares of our common stock. if we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for instruments issued under our equity compensation plans, including for the issuance upon the exercise of stock options and the vesting of performance share units, restricted stock, restricted stock units and deferred stock units, upon conversion of the convertible notes, and in relation to the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the convertible notes. we may not be able to predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. the issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity or equity-linked securities. 39 table of contents we do not currently expect to pay dividends on our common stock, so any returns may be limited to changes in the value of our common stock. we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. we currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. in addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock may be prohibited or limited by the terms of any future debt financing arrangement. any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of our stock price. conversion of the convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their convertible notes, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock. the conversion of the convertible notes into shares of our common stock, to the extent that we choose not to deliver all cash for the conversion value, will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants due to this dilution or may facilitate trading strategies involving the convertible notes and our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, delaware law and the convertible notes may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. these provisions include: our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders meeting; such provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock; the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware law anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. additionally, certain provisions of the convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us or could also have the effect of delaying or reducing the likelihood of a change in control of us even if such acquisition or change of control may be favorable to our stockholders. 40 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of short-term and long-term investments in a variety of available-for-sale fixed and floating rate debt securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income related to these securities may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities which have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or perceived credit risk related to the securities issuers. a hypothetical one-half percentage point change in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in an approximate $0.5 million change in annual interest income derived from investments in our portfolio as of february 29, 2016. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 29, 2016 and february 28, 2015, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 18 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. investment risk the fair market value of our available-for-sale investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage point increase in prevailing interest rates would result in an approximate $17.6 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 29, 2016. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 29, 2016 and february 28, 2015, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 18 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. credit risk investments in debt and equity securities the fair market values of our investment portfolio and cash balances are exposed to counterparty credit risk. accordingly, while we periodically review our portfolio in an effort to mitigate counterparty risk, the principal values of our cash balances, money market accounts and investments in available-for-sale securities could suffer a loss of value. accounts receivable as of february 29, 2016 and february 28, 2015, no individual customer accounted for 10% or more of our total accounts receivable. foreign currency risk approximately 40.9% of our revenue for the year ended february 29, 2016 was produced by sales outside the united states. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of net income. the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at 69 table of contents the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations decreases if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. using the average foreign currency exchange rates from our prior fiscal year ended february 28, 2015, our revenue and operating expenses from non-u.s. operations for the year ended february 29, 2016 would have been higher than we reported by approximately $120.8 million and $97.3 million, respectively, which would have resulted in income from operations being higher by $23.5 million. convertible notes in october 2014, we issued $805.0 million of 0.25% convertible notes due 2019. the convertible notes have a fixed annual interest rate of 0.25%, and therefore we do not have economic interest rate exposure on the convertible notes. however, the fair market value of the convertible notes is exposed to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of the convertible notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. for further discussion regarding the fair value of the convertible notes, see note 22 convertible notes to our consolidated financial statements. in connection with the sale of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions. the convertible note hedge transactions are expected to offset the potential dilution with respect to shares of our common stock upon any conversion of the convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments that we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of the converted notes, as the case may be. the warrant transactions will have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the warrant transactions, exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. however, subject to certain conditions, we may elect to settle all of the warrants in cash. the initial strike price of the warrants is $101.65 per share. the number of shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is 10,965,630 shares, subject to anti-dilution adjustments. the convertible note hedge and warrants are both considered indexed to our common stock and classified as equity; therefore, the convertible note hedge and warrants are not accounted for as derivative instruments. derivative instruments we transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. from time to time we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. all derivative instruments are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their respective fair market values. we have elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify our forward contracts for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in our consolidated statements of operations. for further discussion related to our management of foreign currency risk see note 10 derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 29, 2016 was $72.6 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 29, 2016 was a gross $0.6 million asset and a gross $0.5 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. the forward contracts generally expire within three months of the period ended february 29, 2016. the forward contracts will settle in australian dollars, hong kong dollars, japanese yen, norwegian krona, singapore dollars, swedish krona, swiss francs and u.s. dollars. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2015 was $108.1 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2015 was a gross $0.1 million asset and a gross $0.7 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively on our consolidated balance sheets. 70 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors set forth below are certain risks and cautionary statements, which supplement other disclosures in this report. please carefully consider the following risks and cautionary statements. if any event related to the following risk factors occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. risks related to business uncertainty we face intense competition. the enterprise software industry is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and is subject to changing technologies, shifting customer needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services by both new and established information technology ( it ) companies. we compete based on our ability to provide our customers with enterprise software and related service offerings that best meet their needs at a compelling price. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors products may provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our offerings. competitive pressures could also affect the prices we may charge or the demand for our offerings, resulting in reduced profit margins and loss of market share. our current and potential competitors range from large and well-established companies to emerging start-ups. some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and name recognition, larger development and sales staffs and more extensive marketing and distribution capabilities. certain competitors also bundle hardware and software offerings, making it more difficult for us to penetrate their customer bases, while other competitors may be able to innovate and provide products and services faster than we can. as the enterprise software industry evolves, the competitive pressure for us to innovate encompasses a wider range of products and services, including new offerings that require different expertise than our current offerings. moreover, if we are unable to effectively communicate the value of our subscription model, we may not compete effectively in attracting new, and maintaining existing, customers. given the rapid evolving nature of the enterprise software industry, the competitive landscape and the nature of the competition is constantly changing. consolidation and divestitures in the technology industry are trends that we expect to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain market positions as the technology industry evolves. industry consolidation may affect competition by creating larger and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete or competitors that position themselves as key or single-source vendors providing end-to-end technology solutions for the data center. moreover, other companies may currently be planning to or are under pressure by stockholders to divest businesses. these divestitures may result in additional competitors that may have an advantage by focusing on a single product or service. we also compete in certain areas with our partners and potential partners, some of which may form from time to time new strategic alliances designed to position one or more of them as a key or single-source vendor, and this may adversely impact our relationship with an individual partner or a number of partners. our efforts to compete effectively may not be sufficient, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our continued success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry. investment in new offerings, business strategies and initiatives could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not originally contemplated. we operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, such as the transition of many of our enterprise customers to cloud computing environments and frequent new product and service announcements. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies and user preferences, to adapt our offerings to evolving industry standards, to predict user 18 table of contents index to financial statements preferences and industry changes in order to continue to provide value to our customers and to improve the performance and reliability of our offerings. our failure to adapt to such changes could harm our business, and our efforts to adapt to such changes could require substantial expenditures on our part to modify our offerings or infrastructure. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings and technologies could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings and technologies. the success of new and enhanced offering introductions depends on several factors, including our ability to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings in a timely manner, successfully promote the offerings, manage the risks associated with the offerings, make sufficient resources available to support the offerings and address any quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. even if we are able to enhance our existing offerings or introduce new offerings that are well perceived by the market, if our marketing or sales efforts do not generate interest in or sales for these offerings, they may be unsuccessful. moreover, we believe that our continued success depends on our investing in new business strategies or initiatives that complement our strategic direction and technology road map. such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from other business operations, and insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities and expenses undertaken with such strategies and initiatives. because these endeavors may be inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such endeavors will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading companies, we may not be able to attract and retain a larger customer base. our success depends in part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry-leading cloud service providers, hardware original equipment manufacturers ( oems ), independent software vendors ( isvs ) and system integrators ( sis ), such as amazon.com, inc. ( amazon ), cisco systems, inc., dell inc., fujitsu limited, hewlett packard enterprise company, international business machines corporation, microsoft corporation ( microsoft ), nec corporation, oracle corporation, sap se and others, to help us attract and retain a larger customer base. many of these strategic partners have engineered and certified that their technologies run on or with our offerings and, in some cases, have built their products and solutions using our offerings. we may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on attractive terms in the future. some of our strategic partners offer competing products and services. as a result of these factors, many of the companies with which we have strategic alliances may choose to pursue alternative technologies and develop alternative products and services in addition to or in lieu of our offerings, either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. moreover, we cannot guarantee that the companies with which we have strategic relationships will market our offerings effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. as our agreements with strategic partners terminate or expire, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. we rely, to a significant degree, on indirect sales channels for the distribution of our offerings, and disruption within these channels could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we use a variety of different indirect distribution methods for our offerings, including channel partners, such as certified cloud and service providers, distributors, embedded technology partners, oems, isvs, sis and value added resellers. a number of these partners in turn distribute via their own networks of channel partners with whom we have no direct relationship. these relationships allow us to offer our technologies to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we rely, to a significant degree, on each of our channel partners to select, screen and maintain relationships with its distribution network and to distribute our offerings in a manner that is consistent with applicable law and regulatory requirements and our quality standards. if our channel partners or a partner in its distribution network 19 table of contents index to financial statements violate applicable law or regulatory requirements or misrepresent the functionality of our offerings, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to potential liability. furthermore, our channel partners may offer their own products and services or the products and services of other companies that compete with our offerings or may not distribute and market our offerings effectively. moreover, our existing channel partner relationships do not, and any future channel partner relationships may not, provide for any exclusivity regarding marketing or distribution. in addition, if a channel partner is acquired by a competitor, its business units are reorganized or divested or its financial conditions were to weaken, our revenue derived from that partner may be adversely impacted. recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our enterprise technologies requires significant time and resources. if we fail to devote sufficient resources to support and expand our network of channel partners, our business may be adversely affected. in addition, because we rely on channel partners for the indirect distribution of our enterprise technologies, we may have little or no contact with the ultimate end-users of our technologies, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our software, support ongoing customer requirements, estimate end-user demand, respond to evolving customer needs and obtain subscription renewals from end-users. a portion of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through our channel partners. government entities may have statutory, contractual, or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our channel partners for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future operating results. government entities routinely investigate and audit government contractors administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in a government entity refusing to continue buying our offerings, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. if our indirect distribution channel is disrupted, we may be required to devote more resources to distribute our offerings directly and support our customers, which may not be as effective and could lead to higher costs, reduced revenue and growth that is slower than expected. the duration and extent of economic downturns, regional financial instability, and economic and market conditions in general could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. economic weakness and uncertainty, tightened credit markets and constrained it spending from time to time contribute to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the industries of our customers and the geographic regions in which we operate, which may result in reduced demand and increased price competition for our offerings. our operating results in one or more geographic regions or customer industries may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region or industry. uncertainty about future economic conditions may, among other things, negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases or lengthen our sales cycle. adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, such conditions may impact our investment portfolio, and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. also, such conditions may make it more difficult to forecast operating results. if global economic conditions, or economic conditions in the u.s., europe, asia or in other key geographic regions or customer industries, were to deteriorate, current and prospective customers may delay or reduce their it spending, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we have expanded our operations significantly in recent years. for example, our total revenue increased from $2.05 billion for the fiscal year ended february 29, 2016 to $2.41 billion for the fiscal year ended february 28, 2017 ( fiscal 2017 ). moreover, the total number of our employees increased from approximately 20 table of contents index to financial statements 8,800 as of february 29, 2016 to approximately 10,500 as of february 28, 2017. in addition, we continue to explore ways to extend our offerings and geographic reach. our growth has placed and will likely continue to place a strain on our management systems, information systems, resources and internal controls. our ability to successfully provide our offerings and implement our business plan requires adequate information systems and resources, internal controls and oversight from our senior management. as we expand in international markets, these challenges increase as a result of the need to support a growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, dispute resolution systems, regulatory systems and commercial practices. as we grow, (i) we may not be able to adequately screen and hire or adequately train, supervise, manage or develop sufficient personnel, and (ii) we may not be able to develop or effectively manage our controls, oversight functions or information systems. if we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we have entered into and may continue to enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions, which may be difficult to complete and integrate, disrupt our business, divert management attention, adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows or dilute stockholder value. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past entered into business combinations and acquisitions, and we may continue to do so in the future. these types of transactions can increase the expense of running our business and present significant challenges and risks, including: identifying acquisition targets that complement our strategic direction and technology road map; integrating the acquired business accounting, financial reporting, management, information and information security, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and reporting, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; gathering full information regarding a business or technology prior to a transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected tax implications and other adverse effects on our business; increasing or adding operating expenses related to the acquired business or technology; maintaining or establishing acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; disrupting our ongoing business and distracting management; impairing relationships with our employees, partners or customers as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel, products or technology or as a result of the changes in the competitive landscape affected by the transaction; maintaining good relationships with customers or business partners of the acquired business; effectively evaluating talent at an acquired business or identifying cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired business into our organization; losing key employees of the acquired business; incorporating and further developing acquired products or technology into our offerings and maintaining quality standards consistent with our brands; achieving the expected benefits of the transaction, which may include generating greater market acceptance of our technologies, increasing our revenues or integrating the assets acquired into one or more of our current offerings; incurring expenses related to the transaction; 21 table of contents index to financial statements assuming claims and liabilities from the acquired business or technology, or that are otherwise related to the transaction; entering into new markets in which we have little or no experience or in which competitors may have stronger market positions; impairing of intangible assets and goodwill acquired in transactions; and for foreign transactions, managing additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. there can be no assurance that we will manage these challenges and risks successfully. moreover, if we are not successful in completing transactions that we have pursued or may pursue, our business may be adversely affected, and we may incur substantial expenses and divert significant management time and resources. in addition, in pursuing and completing such transactions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, or we may incur substantial debt. we could also issue additional securities as all or a portion of the purchase price for these transactions or as retention incentives to employees of the acquired business, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. any transaction may not generate additional revenue or profit for us, or may take longer to do so than expected, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we depend on our key employees, and our inability to attract and retain such employees could adversely affect our business or diminish our brands. competition in our industry for qualified employees, especially technical employees, is intense and our competitors may directly target our employees. our inability to attract and retain key employees could hinder our influence in open source projects and seriously impede our success. we have from time to time in the past experienced, and we may experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited, that they have divulged proprietary or other confidential information, or that their former employers own their inventions or other work product. moreover, the loss of these key employees, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers could reduce our market share and diminish our brands. a number of our key employees have become, or will become, vested in a significant amount of their equity compensation awards. employees may be more likely to leave us after a significant portion of their equity compensation awards fully vest, especially if the shares underlying the equity awards have significantly appreciated in value. additionally, as we grow, there may be less equity compensation to award per employee. if we do not succeed in attracting and retaining key personnel, our business, financial performance, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. we may not be able to continue to attract and retain capable management. our future success depends on the continued services and effectiveness of a number of key management personnel. the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, could adversely affect our business or stock price. our ability to retain key management personnel or hire capable new management personnel as we grow may be challenged to the extent that other companies are able to offer more attractive opportunities to the individuals we seek to hire or retain. in addition, historically we have used share-based compensation as a key component of our compensation packages. if the price of our common stock falls, the value of our share-based awards to recipients is reduced. such events, or if we are unable to secure stockholder approval for increases in the number 22 table of contents index to financial statements of shares eligible for share-based compensation grants, could adversely affect our ability to successfully attract and retain key management personnel. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key management personnel could hinder our strategic planning and execution. because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry into the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us. one of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone may modify and redistribute the existing open source software and use it to compete with us. such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. it is possible for competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions or acquire a smaller business that has developed open source offerings that compete with our offerings, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our offerings. in addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use on an ad hoc basis or may position their open source software as a loss leader. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. additionally, any failure by us to provide high-quality technical support, or the perception that we do not provide high-quality technical support, could harm our reputation and negatively impact our ability to sell subscriptions for our open source offerings to existing and prospective customers. if we are unable to differentiate our open source offerings from those of our competitors or compete effectively with other open source offerings, our business, financial condition, operation results and cash flows could be adversely affected. our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and collaboration fostered by our culture, and our business may be adversely affected. we believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity and collaboration. as our organization grows, our employees (including remote workers) and our resources become more globally dispersed and our organizational management structures become more complex, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain these beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. if we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, we may find it difficult to attract and retain motivated employees, continue to perform at current levels or execute on our business strategy. as a result, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. our emerging technology offerings are based on developing technologies and business models, and the potential market for these offerings remains uncertain. our emerging technology offerings, which include our cloud, mobile and storage offerings, are based on developing technologies and business models, the success of which will depend on the technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the adoption of these technologies. these technologies are rapidly evolving, and their development is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment as well as the accurate anticipation of technology trends, market demand and customer needs. we expect competition to remain intense and, as with many emerging it sectors, these technologies may be subject to a first mover effect pursuant to which certain product offerings rapidly capture a significant portion of market share and developer attention. moreover, we may make errors in reacting to relevant business trends and predicting which technologies will be successful or otherwise develop into industry standards. adoption of emerging technologies may occur more slowly or less pervasively than we expect and the revenue growth associated with these offerings may be slower than currently expected. moreover, even if 23 table of contents index to financial statements emerging technologies are adopted widely by enterprises, our offerings in these areas may not attract a sufficient number of users or generate attractive financial results. we incur expenses associated with these offerings in advance of our ability to generate associated revenue. demand for our emerging technology offerings may unfavorably impact demand for our other offerings, including software subscriptions and related professional services. if the market for our emerging technologies offerings fails to develop adequately, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may experience a decline in the demand for our offerings. demand for our offerings depends substantially on the general demand for enterprise software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. in addition, our customers generally undertake a significant evaluation process that may result in a lengthy sales cycle. we spend substantial time, effort, and money on our sales efforts, including developing and implementing appropriate go-to-market strategies and training our sales force and channel partners in order to effectively market new offerings, without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. the purchase of our offerings may be discretionary and can involve significant expenditures. if our current and prospective customers cut costs, then they may significantly reduce their enterprise software expenditures. an increased focus on developing and providing emerging technology offerings may place a greater emphasis on marketing more holistic solutions, rather than individual offerings. consequently, we may need to adapt our marketing and pricing strategies for our offerings, our customers purchasing decisions may become more complex and require additional levels of approval and the duration of sales cycles for our offerings may increase. if demand for our offerings declines, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. if our customers do not renew their subscription agreements with us, or if they renew on less favorable terms, our business, financial results, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. our customers may not renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact some customers elect not to do so. in addition, our customers may opt for a lower-priced edition of our offerings or for fewer subscriptions. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our offerings and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. government contracts could be subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and generally are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. if we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower-priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. our business model may encounter customer resistance. we provide red hat enterprise technologies primarily under annual or multi-year subscriptions. a subscription generally entitles a customer to, among other things, a specified level of support, as well as security updates, fixes, functionality enhancements, upgrades to the technologies, each, if and when available, and compatibility with an ecosystem of certified hardware and software. while we believe this practice complies with the requirements of the gnu general public license, and while we have reviewed this practice with the free software foundation, the organization that maintains and provides interpretations of the gnu general public license, customers may fail to honor the terms of our subscription agreements. as technologies and the markets for our enterprise offerings change, our annual or multi-year subscription-based business model may no longer meet the needs of our customers. for example, a business model based on 24 table of contents index to financial statements annual or multi-year subscriptions may no longer be competitive in an environment where disruptive technologies (such as cloud computing) enable customers to consume competitive offerings available from companies such as amazon, google inc. and microsoft on an hourly basis or for free. we also develop and offer these disruptive technologies with consumption-based pricing, which may have an effect on the demand for our subscription-based offerings. if we are unable to adapt our business model to changes in the marketplace, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. if third-party enterprise hardware and software providers do not continue to make their products and services compatible with our offerings, our software may cease to be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. the competitive position of our offerings is dependent on their compatibility with products and services of third-party enterprise hardware and software companies. to the extent that a hardware or software vendor might have or develop products and services that compete with ours, the vendor may have an incentive to seek to limit the performance, functionality or compatibility of our offerings when used with one or more of the vendor offerings. in addition, these vendors may fail to support or issue statements of compatibility or certification of our offerings when used with their offerings. we intend to encourage the development of additional applications that operate on both current and new versions of our offerings by, among other means, attracting third-party developers to our offerings, providing open source tools to create these applications and maintaining our existing developer relationships through marketing and technical support. we intend to encourage the compatibility of our software with various third-party hardware and software offerings by maintaining and expanding our relationships, both business and technical, with relevant independent hardware and software vendors. if we are not successful in achieving these goals, however, our offerings may not be competitive and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. if open source software programmers, most of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new technologies, adequately enhance our existing technologies or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price. we rely to a significant degree on a number of largely informal communities of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance our enterprise technologies. for example, linus torvalds, a prominent open source software developer, and a relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the linux kernel, which is the heart of the red hat enterprise linux operating system. if these groups of programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance our offerings or we would need to develop and enhance our offerings with our own resources. we cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. in either event, our development expenses could be increased and our technology release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, the development and adoption of these technologies could be stifled and our offerings could become less competitive. delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those offerings and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. our offerings may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our enterprise technologies and expose us to claims and litigation. despite our testing procedures, errors have been and may continue to be found in our offerings after deployment. this risk is increased by the fact that much of the code in our offerings is developed by independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. if errors are discovered, we may have to make 25 table of contents index to financial statements significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around them, and we may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner or at all. errors and failures in our offerings could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our enterprise technologies, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince enterprise users of the benefits of our technologies. in addition, errors in our technologies could cause system failures, loss of data or other adverse effects for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. although our agreements with our customers often contain provisions which seek to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. while we seek to insure against these types of claims, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to such claims. these claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, operating results and cash flows. our continued success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance strong brands. we believe that the brand identities that we have developed have contributed significantly to the success of our business. we also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to expanding our customer and partner base and attracting talented employees. in order to maintain and enhance our brands, we may be required to make further investments that may not be successful. maintaining our brands will depend in part on our ability to remain a leader in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high-quality offerings. if we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. security breaches and data loss may expose us to liability, harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. our business involves the production and distribution of enterprise software technologies, as well as hosting applications. as part of our business, we (or third parties with whom we contract) receive, store and process our data, as well as our customers and partners data. while we take security and testing measures relating to our offerings and operations, those measures may not prevent security breaches and data loss that could harm our business or the businesses of our customers and partners. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate technology or facility security measures or other factors may result in data loss or a compromise or breach of our systems and the data we receive, store and process (or systems and the data received, stored and processed by third parties with whom we contract). these security measures may be breached or data lost as a result of actions by third parties, employee error (such as weak passwords or unencrypted devices), malfeasance or vulnerabilities (including vulnerabilities of our vendors) or security bugs found in software code. a party who is able to circumvent security measures or exploit inadequacies in security measures, could, among other things, misappropriate proprietary information (including information about our employees, customers and partners, our customers information, financial data and data that others could use to compete against us), cause the loss or disclosure of some or all of this information, cause interruptions or denial of service in our or our customers operations, cause delays in development efforts or expose customers (and their customers) to computer viruses or other disruptions or vulnerabilities. a compromise to these systems could remain undetected for an extended period of time, exacerbating the impact of that compromise. these risks may increase as we continue to grow our cloud, mobile and services offerings and as we receive, store and process more of our customers data. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to regulatory investigations, claims against us by customers, partners or other third parties, or costs, such as those related to providing customer notifications and fraud monitoring. while our customer agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our liability, there is no assurance these provisions will be enforceable and effective under applicable law. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. moreover, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be 26 table of contents index to financial statements unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any loss of data or compromise of our systems or the data we receive, store or process (or systems and the data received, stored and processed by third parties with whom we contract) could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings, damage our reputation, loss of channel or strategic partners, lead to legal liability and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we are vulnerable to technology infrastructure failures, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, and the technology infrastructure of third parties, for many functions, including selling our offerings, supporting our partners, fulfilling orders and billing, and collecting and making payments. this technology infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer intrusions, vulnerabilities and viruses, software errors, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. a significant number of the systems making up this infrastructure are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for every eventuality. this technology infrastructure may fail or be vulnerable to damage or interruption because of actions by third parties or employee error or malfeasance. we may not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of technology infrastructure failures or to cover all contingencies. any interruption in the availability of our websites and on-line interactions with customers or partners may cause a reduction in customer or partner satisfaction levels, which in turn could cause additional claims, reduced revenue or loss of customers or partners. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, a loss of data, loss of confidence in the stability and reliability of our offerings, damage to our reputation, and legal liability, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. a decline in or reprioritization of funding in the u.s. or foreign government budgets or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we derive, and expect to continue to derive, a portion of our revenue from u.s. and foreign governments. government deficit reduction and austerity measures can place pressure on u.s. and foreign government spending. the termination of, or delayed or reduced funding for, government-sponsored programs and contracts from which we derive revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could reduce the market appeal of our offerings, damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we do not exercise control over many aspects of the development of open source technology. different groups of open source software programmers compete with one another to develop new technology. typically, the technology developed by one group will become more widely used than that developed by others. if we acquire or adopt new technology and incorporate it into our offerings but competing technology becomes more widely used or accepted, the market appeal of our offerings may be reduced, which could harm our reputation, diminish our brands and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we include software licensed from other parties in our offerings, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay availability of our offerings. we utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties in our offerings. aspects of our business could be disrupted if any of the software we license from others or functional equivalents of this software were no longer available to us, no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms or changed in ways or included defects that make the third-party software unsuitable for our use. in these cases, we would be 27 table of contents index to financial statements required to either redesign our technologies to function with software available from other parties, develop these components ourselves or eliminate the functionality, which could result in increased costs, the need to mitigate customer issues, delays in delivery of our offerings and the release of new offerings and limit the features available in our current or future offerings. risks related to legal uncertainty if our technologies are found or alleged to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we may be required to take costly and time-consuming actions to meet our commitments to customers. we regularly commit to our subscription customers that if portions of our offerings are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights we will, at our expense and option: (i) obtain the right for the customer to continue to use the technology consistent with their subscription agreement with us; (ii) modify the technology so that its use is non-infringing; or (iii) replace the infringing component with a non-infringing component, and defend them against specified infringement claims. although we cannot predict whether we will need to satisfy these commitments and we often have limitations on these commitments, satisfying these commitments could be costly, be time-consuming, divert the attention of technical and management personnel, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. in addition, our insurance policies would likely not adequately cover our exposure to this type of claim. finally, because we have agreed to defend our subscription customers against specified infringement claims arising from the use of our offerings, we could become involved in litigation brought against such customers if our services and technology are allegedly implicated. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights, and an unfavorable legal decision affecting our intellectual property could adversely affect our business. we are vulnerable to claims that our technologies infringe third-party intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, because our technologies are comprised of software components, many of which are developed by numerous independent parties. we are also unlikely to be able to assess adequately the relevance of patents to our technologies, and may be unable to take appropriate responsive action in a timely or economic manner because, among other reasons, the scope of software patent protection is often not well defined or readily determinable, patent applications in the u.s. are not publicly disclosed at the time of filing, and the number of software patents that are issued each year is significant and growing. our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may increase as a result of acquisitions. in addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition of such technology. in the past, our technologies have been subject to intellectual property infringement claims. some of these claims have been brought by entities that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement. as these entities do not have operating businesses of their own and therefore have limited risk of counterclaims for damages or injunctive relief, it may be difficult to deter them from bringing intellectual property infringement claims. we expect to face the possibility of more intellectual property infringement claims as our prominence increases, business activities expand, market share and revenue grow, the number of products and competitors in our industry grows and the functionality of products in different portions of the industry overlap. we may not be able to accurately assess the risk related to these suits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. defending patent and other intellectual property claims, even claims without significant merit, can be time-consuming, costly and can divert the attention of technical and management personnel. we may receive unfavorable preliminary or interim rulings in the course of litigation, and there can be no assurances that 28 table of contents index to financial statements favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. we may decide to settle certain lawsuits and disputes on terms that are disadvantageous to us. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease offering certain of our technologies or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue offering technologies found to be in violation of a third party rights, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. as a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or practices or discontinue the practices. the development of alternative non-infringing technology or practices could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. an unfavorable legal decision regarding the intellectual property in and to our technology and other offerings could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings for additional information. our activities, or the activities of our partners, may violate anti-corruption laws and regulations that apply to us. in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to engage in business practices that are prohibited by regulations that may apply to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to help promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, partners and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. any violation of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. governmental regulations affecting the import or export of software could adversely impact our business. due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to import and export restrictions and regulations, including the export administration regulations administered by the u.s. commerce department bureau of industry and security ( bis ) and the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control ( ofac ). the u.s., through the bis and ofac, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons ( denied parties ). violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products or services to the federal government. any such penalties could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. in addition, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant expense and reputational harm and distract senior executives from managing our normal day-to-day operations. our products could also be shipped to denied parties by third parties, including our channel partners. even though we take precautions to ensure that our channel partners comply with all relevant import and export regulations, any failure by our channel partners to comply with such regulations could have negative consequences for us, including reputational harm, government investigations and penalties. we could be prevented from selling or developing our software if the gnu general public license and similar licenses under which our technologies are developed and licensed are not enforceable or are modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses. a number of our offerings, including red hat enterprise linux, have been developed and licensed under the gnu general public license and similar open source licenses. these licenses state that any program licensed under them may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. it is possible that a court would hold these licenses 29 table of contents index to financial statements to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. additionally, if any of the open source components of our offerings may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, then our ability to distribute or develop all or a portion of our offerings could be adversely impacted. in addition, licensors of open source software employed in our offerings may, from time to time, modify the terms of their license agreements in such a manner that those license terms may become incompatible with other open source licenses in our offerings or our end user license agreement, and thus could, among other consequences, prevent us from distributing the software code subject to the modified license. our efforts to protect our trademarks may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our trademarks. our collection of trademarks is valuable and important to our business. the protective steps we have taken in the past may have been, and may in the future continue to be, inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of our trademark rights. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our trademark rights in a timely manner. we have registered some of our trademarks in countries in north america, south america, europe, asia, africa and australia and have other trademark applications pending in various countries around the world. effective trademark protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to distribute our offerings. we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy one or more of our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our technologies could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our technology innovation capabilities and adversely affect our business. when we undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property, including patents, copyrights and trademark rights, our standing in the open source community could be adversely affected as the community supports the ability to write and share code freely. this in turn could limit our ability to continue to rely on this community, upon which we are dependent, as a resource to help develop and improve our technologies and further our research and development efforts, which could adversely affect our business. our patent promise on software patents limits our ability to enforce our patent rights in certain circumstances. as part of our commitment to the open source community, we provide our patent promise on software patents. under our patent promise, we agree, subject to certain limitations, to not enforce our patent rights against users of open source software covered by certain open source licenses, including the gnu general public license version 2.0 and version 3.0, gnu lesser general public license version 2.1 and version 3.0, ibm public license version 1.0, common public license version 1.0, q public license version 1.0, open software license version 3.0 and any other open source license granted by red hat. while we may be able to claim protection of our intellectual property under other rights, such as trade secrets or contractual rights, our patent promise effectively limits our ability to assert our patent rights against these third parties (even if we were to conclude that their use infringes our patents with competing offerings), unless any such third party asserts its patent rights against us. this limitation on our ability to assert our patent rights against others could harm our business and ability to compete. we are, and may become, involved in disputes and lawsuits that could adversely affect our business. lawsuits or legal proceedings may be commenced against us. these disputes and proceedings may involve significant expense and divert the attention of management and other employees. if we do not prevail in these 30 table of contents index to financial statements matters, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings for additional information. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations regarding data privacy and protection, our business could be adversely affected. our business is subject to a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations that apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and processing of personal data. these data privacy- and protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. any failure by us to comply with data privacy- and protection-related laws and regulations could result in enforcement actions, significant penalties or other legal actions against us or our customers or suppliers. an actual or alleged failure to comply, which could result in negative publicity, reduce demand for our offerings, increase the cost of compliance, require changes in business practices that result in reduced revenue, restrict our ability to provide our offerings in certain locations, result in our customers inability to use our offerings and prohibit data transfers or result in other claims, liabilities or sanctions, including fines, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. if we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our business could be adversely affected. our contracts with our customers may include specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various government certification requirements, procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us or our channel partners to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations by us or our channel partners could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. in addition, we may be subject to qui tam litigation, the process by which a private individual sues or prosecutes on behalf of the government relating to government contracts and shares in the proceeds of any successful litigation or settlement, which could include claims for up to treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business and affect our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, if we are unable to meet government certification requirements, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. we may be subject to legal liability associated with providing online services or content. we provide offerings, such as red hat openshift, that enable users to exchange information, advertise products and services, conduct business, and engage in various online activities. the law relating to the liability of providers of these online offerings for activities of their users is relatively unsettled and still developing both in the u.s. and internationally and may be significantly different from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. claims could be brought against us based on the nature and content of information that we publish or to which we provide links or that may be posted online or generated by us or by third parties, including our customers. in addition, we could be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates applicable law. 31 table of contents index to financial statements risks related to financial uncertainty our quarterly and annual operating results may not be a reliable indicator of our future financial performance. due to the unpredictability of the it spending environment, among other reasons, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. we base our current and projected future expense levels, in part, on our estimates of future revenue. our expenses are, to a large extent, fixed in the short term. accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to protect our projected operating results for a quarter if our revenue in that quarter falls short of our expectations. our fourth fiscal quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for sales. this pattern has become more pronounced as the number of customers with renewal dates occurring in the last half of our fiscal year has continued to increase. additionally, a significant portion of our quarterly sales typically occur during the last weeks of the quarter and our operating results may be adversely impacted if we do not have sufficient time to bill and collect from our customers in the same quarter or fiscal year. some of our customers may wait until the end of the quarter to negotiate their contracts in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to execute these contracts within the same quarter. moreover, as an increasing number of customers enter into larger, multi-year transactions with us, such transactions tend to have longer sales cycles and can involve customers choosing to pay annually, which may impact our quarterly operating results. if, among other considerations, our future financial performance falls below the expectations of securities analysts or investors or we are unable to increase or maintain profitability, the market price of our common stock may decline. we may not be able to meet the financial and operational challenges that we will encounter as our international operations, which represented approximately 41.9% of our total revenue for fiscal 2017, continue to expand. our international operations accounted for approximately 41.9% of total revenue for fiscal 2017. as we expand our international operations, we may have difficulty managing and administering a globally dispersed business and we may need to expend additional funds to, among other activities, reorganize our sales force and technical support services team, outsource or supplement general and administrative functions, staff key management positions, obtain additional information technology infrastructure and successfully localize offerings for a significant number of international markets, which may adversely affect our operating results. additional challenges associated with the conduct of our business globally that may adversely affect our operating results include: fluctuations in exchange rates; pricing environments; longer payment cycles and less financial stability of customers; economic, political, compliance and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; laws and policies of the u.s. and other jurisdictions affecting trade, foreign investment, loans, immigration and taxes, including any adverse effects that may result from the recent changes in u.s. government and the united kingdom vote to exit the european union; difficulty selecting and monitoring channel partners; differing technology standards and customer requirements; lower levels of availability or use of the internet, through which our software is often delivered; difficulty protecting our intellectual property rights globally due to, among other reasons, the uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights; 32 table of contents index to financial statements difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations as a result of distance and language, legal, cultural and other differences; different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works councils and labor unions; difficulty maintaining quality standards consistent with our brands; export and import laws and regulations that could prevent us from delivering our offerings into and from certain countries; public health risks and natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions; changes in import/export duties, quotas or other trade barriers that could affect the competitive pricing of our offerings and reduce our market share in some countries; and economic or political instability or terrorist acts in some international markets that could adversely affect our business in those markets or result in the loss or forfeiture of some foreign assets and the loss of sums spent developing and marketing those assets and the revenue associated with them. any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from our red hat enterprise linux platform. during fiscal 2017, a substantial portion of our subscription revenue was derived from our red hat enterprise linux offerings. although we are continuing to develop other offerings, we expect that revenue from red hat enterprise linux will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. declines and variability in demand for red hat enterprise linux could occur as a result of: competitive products and pricing; failure to release new or enhanced versions of red hat enterprise linux on a timely basis, or at all; maturity of the market for red hat enterprise linux; technological change that we are unable to address with red hat enterprise linux; or future economic conditions. additionally, as more customers and potential customers virtualize their data centers and move computing projects to cloud environments, demand for operating systems such as red hat enterprise linux may decline. moreover, as data centers become more virtualized and move to cloud environments, we may experience a decline in growth if we are unsuccessful in adapting our business model and offerings accordingly. due to the concentration of our revenue from red hat enterprise linux, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected by a decline in demand for red hat enterprise linux. we are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations. a portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the u.s. dollar may affect our revenue, operating expenses and operating margins, which are reported in u.s. dollars. we cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations. as we expand international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations may increase. we may use financial instruments, primarily forward purchase contracts, to economically hedge currency commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations. if these hedging activities are not successful or we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. for information regarding our hedging activity, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . 33 table of contents index to financial statements if our growth rate slows, our stock price could be adversely affected. as the markets for our offerings mature and the scale of our business increases, our rate of revenue, deferred revenue and operating cash flow growth may be lower than the growth rates we experienced in earlier periods. in addition, to the extent that the adoption of our offerings occurs more slowly or is less pervasive than we expect, our growth rates may slow or decline, which could adversely affect our stock price. historical period-to-period comparisons of our revenue, deferred revenue and operating cash flow may not be meaningful and are not guarantees of our future performance. we may be subject to greater tax liabilities. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. changes in tax laws, or in judicial or administrative interpretations of tax laws, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. significant judgment, knowledge and experience are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. our future effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors including changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, increases in expenses not deductible for tax, including impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions, and changes in available tax credits. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. the results of an audit or litigation could adversely affect our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. we earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the u.s., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, including recent proposals to change a number of international tax practices and principles recently recommended by the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ) base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) project. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any legislation based on such proposals may be adopted by the countries in which we do business, future tax reform based on such proposals may increase the amount of taxes we pay and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our service over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. we generally recognize subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 to 36 months. as a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. consequently, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. in addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our service, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. 34 table of contents index to financial statements if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls. we must comply, on an on-going basis, with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, including those provisions that establish the requirements for both management and auditors of public companies with respect to reporting on internal control over financial reporting. we cannot be certain that measures we have taken, and will take, will be sufficient or timely completed to meet these requirements on an on-going basis, or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate disclosure controls and controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, particularly in light of our rapid growth, international expansion and changes in our offerings, which are expected to result in on-going changes to our control systems and areas of potential risk. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial condition of our business could be adversely affected, current and potential future stockholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our trading price, and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects, including changes to previously filed financial statements, which could cause our stock to decline. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. these principles are subject to interpretation by the u.s. securities and exchange commission and various bodies formed to create and interpret appropriate accounting principles and guidance. a change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a significant effect on our reported results, as well as our processes and related controls, and may retroactively affect previously reported results. for example, in may 2014, the financial accounting standards board issued accounting standards update 2014-09, revenue from contracts with customers ( asu 2014-09 ) . this guidance is effective for us beginning the first quarter of our fiscal year ending february 28, 2019. for a discussion of the potential impact that the implementation of asu 2014-09 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data . our investment portfolio is subject to credit and liquidity risks and fluctuations in the market value of our investments and interest rates. these risks may result in an impairment of, or the loss of all or a portion of, the value of our investments, an inability to sell our investments or a decline in interest income. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types and maturities. our portfolio as of february 28, 2017 consisted primarily of money market funds, u.s. government and agency securities, european 35 table of contents index to financial statements sovereign and agency securities with a rating of aa or higher, certificates of deposit, and corporate securities. although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the risks associated with our investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security or issuer, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value or become impaired, or that our interest income will not decline. a significant part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government and agency securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a default or downgrade of u.s. government or agency debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. future fluctuations and uncertainty in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could record additional impairment charges and lose some or all of the principal value of investments in our portfolio. a total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see part ii, item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. some of these investments may have been made to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. our investments in private companies are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. we could lose the value of our entire investment in these companies. epidemics, geo-political events, internet and power outages or natural disasters could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. the occurrence of one or more epidemics, geo-political events (such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks), internet and power outages or natural disasters in a country in which we operate or in which technology industry suppliers or our customers are located, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of our customers to access our offerings, the inability of our associates to reach or have transportation to our facilities or our customers facilities directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of our customers, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of computer hardware and related components, the disruption or delay in the manufacture and transport of goods globally, the disruption of utility services to our facilities or to suppliers, partners or customers, or disruption in our communications with our customers. risks related to the convertible notes the convertible notes are effectively subordinated to any secured debt we incur in the future and to any liabilities of our subsidiaries. in october 2014, we issued $805.0 million of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the convertible notes ). the convertible notes will rank senior in right of payment to any of our indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the convertible notes; equal in right of payment to any of our existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities that are not so subordinated; effectively junior in right of payment to any of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and structurally junior to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries (including trade payables). in 36 table of contents index to financial statements the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding up, our assets that secure debt ranking senior in right of payment to the convertible notes will be available to pay obligations on the convertible notes only after the secured debt has been repaid in full from these assets, and the assets of our subsidiaries will be available to pay obligations on the convertible notes only after all claims senior to the convertible notes have been repaid in full. there may not be sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the convertible notes then outstanding. we may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions that could diminish our ability to make payments on the convertible notes. we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our future debt instruments, some of which may be secured debt. we are not restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the convertible notes when due. we may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the convertible notes in cash, repay the convertible notes at maturity or repurchase the convertible notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the convertible notes. holders of the convertible notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their convertible notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the convertible notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. in addition, upon conversion of the convertible notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the convertible notes being converted. however, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of the convertible notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to the convertible notes being converted or at their maturity. in addition, our ability to repurchase or to pay cash upon conversions of the convertible notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority or agreements governing our future indebtedness and is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our failure to repurchase the convertible notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the convertible notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. a fundamental change under the indenture or a default under the indenture could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. if the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the convertible notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. the conditional conversion feature of the convertible notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. in the event the conditional conversion feature of the convertible notes is triggered, holders of the convertible notes will be entitled to convert the convertible notes at any time during specified periods at their option. if one or more holders elect to convert their convertible notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. in addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their convertible notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the 37 table of contents index to financial statements outstanding principal of the convertible notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. the accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the convertible notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. accounting standards codification subtopic 470-20, debt with conversion and other options ( asc 470-20 ), requires an entity to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer non-convertible debt interest rate. accordingly, the equity component of the convertible notes is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the convertible notes. as a result, we are required to recognize a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in our consolidated income statements in the current and future periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the convertible notes to their principal amount over the term of the convertible notes. we will report lower net income (or greater net losses) in our consolidated financial results because asc 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period amortization of the original issue discount and the instrument non-convertible interest rate. this could adversely affect our reported or future consolidated financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the convertible notes. in addition, under certain circumstances, in calculating earnings per share, convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, if any, are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the convertible notes exceeds their principal amount. under the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share is calculated as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, were issued. we cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. if we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes, if any, then our diluted consolidated earnings per share would be adversely affected. the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. in connection with the sale of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with institutions that we refer to as the option counterparties. we also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties pursuant to which we sold warrants for the purchase of our common stock. the convertible note hedge transactions are expected to offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount upon conversion of any convertible notes. the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the relevant warrants, unless, subject to certain conditions, we elect to settle the warrants in cash. the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the convertible notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of convertible notes or following any repurchase of convertible notes by us in connection with any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). this activity could suppress or inflate the market price of our common stock. we do not make any representation or prediction as to the direction or magnitude of any potential effect that the transactions described above may have on the price of the convertible notes or our common stock. in 38 table of contents index to financial statements addition, we do not make any representation that the option counterparties or their respective affiliates will engage in these transactions or that these transactions, once commenced, will not be discontinued without notice. we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions. the option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that these option counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. if one or more of the option counterparties to one or more of our convertible note hedge transactions becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in the volatility of the market price of our common stock. in addition, upon a default by one of the option counterparties, we may suffer dilution with respect to our common stock as well as adverse financial consequences. we can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the option counterparties. risks related to ownership of our common stock our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new offerings by us or our competitors, announcements relating to strategic decisions, announcements related to key personnel, customer purchase delays, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, news reports relating to trends in our markets, the commencement or termination of any share repurchase program, general economic conditions and other risks listed herein. the sale of our common stock by significant stockholders may cause the price of our common stock to decrease. several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock. if these stockholders were to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock, then the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. the effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time. we may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock and thereby materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, shares of our common stock. if we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. in addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock are reserved for instruments issued under our equity compensation plans, including for the issuance upon the exercise of stock options and the vesting of performance share units, restricted stock, restricted stock units and deferred stock units. a substantial number of shares of our common stock are also reserved in relation to the convertible notes, the convertible note hedge and 39 table of contents index to financial statements warrant transactions and our employee stock purchase plan. we may not be able to predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. the issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity or equity-linked securities. we do not currently expect to pay dividends on our common stock, so any returns may be limited to changes in the value of our common stock. we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. we currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. in addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock may be prohibited or limited by the terms of any future debt financing arrangement. any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of our stock price. conversion of the convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their convertible notes, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock. the conversion of the convertible notes into shares of our common stock, to the extent that we choose not to deliver all cash for the conversion value, will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. in addition, the existence of the convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants due to this dilution or may facilitate trading strategies involving the convertible notes and our common stock. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, delaware law and the convertible notes may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. these provisions include: our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders meeting; such provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock; the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. further, as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain delaware law anti-takeover provisions. under delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. our board of directors could rely on delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. additionally, certain provisions of the convertible notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us or could also have the effect of delaying or reducing the likelihood of a change in control of us even if such acquisition or change of control may be favorable to our stockholders. 40 table of contents index to financial statements quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the market value of our investments. interest rate risk our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal and liquidity while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, we maintain our portfolio of short- and long-term investments in a variety of available-for-sale fixed and floating rate debt securities, including both government and corporate obligations and money market funds. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in prevailing interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income related to these securities may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates, or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or perceived credit risk related to the securities issuers. a hypothetical one-half percentage point change in interest rates, assuming a parallel shift of all interest rates, would result in an approximate $0.6 million change in annual interest income derived from investments in our portfolio as of february 28, 2017. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2017 and february 29, 2016, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 17 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. investment risk the fair market value of our available-for-sale investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk. based on a sensitivity analysis performed on this investment portfolio, a hypothetical one percentage point increase in prevailing interest rates would result in an approximate $12.0 million decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale investment securities as of february 28, 2017. for further discussion related to our investments as of february 28, 2017 and february 29, 2016, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies and note 17 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis to our consolidated financial statements. credit risk investments in debt and equity securities the fair market values of our investment portfolio and cash balances are exposed to counterparty credit risk. accordingly, while we periodically review our portfolio in an effort to mitigate counterparty risk, the principal values of our cash balances, money market accounts and investments in available-for-sale securities could suffer a loss of value. accounts receivable as of february 28, 2017 and february 29, 2016, no individual customer accounted for 10% or more of our total accounts receivable. foreign currency risk approximately 41.9% of our revenue for fiscal 2017 was produced by sales outside the united states. we are exposed to significant risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from receivables denominated in foreign currency and are subject to transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of net income. the income statements of our non-u.s. operations are translated into u.s. dollars at the average exchange rates for 69 table of contents index to financial statements each applicable month in a period. to the extent the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency statements results in increased revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations. similarly, our revenue and operating expenses for our non-u.s. operations decrease if the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. using the average foreign currency exchange rates from fiscal 2016, our revenue from non-u.s. operations for fiscal 2017 would have been lower than we reported by approximately $7.6 million and operating expenses from non-u.s. operations for fiscal 2017 would have been higher than we reported by approximately $7.5 million, which would have resulted in income from operations being lower by $15.1 million. convertible notes in october 2014, we issued $805.0 million of 0.25% convertible notes due 2019. the convertible notes have a fixed annual interest rate of 0.25%, and, therefore, we do not have economic interest rate exposure on the convertible notes. however, the fair market value of the convertible notes is exposed to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of the convertible notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. for further discussion regarding the fair value of the convertible notes, see note 21 convertible notes to our consolidated financial statements. in connection with the sale of the convertible notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and warrant transactions. the convertible note hedge transactions are expected to offset the potential dilution with respect to shares of our common stock upon any conversion of the convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments that we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of the converted notes, as the case may be. the warrant transactions will have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the warrant transactions, exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. however, subject to certain conditions, we may elect to settle all of the warrants in cash. the initial strike price of the warrants is $101.65 per share. the number of shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is 10,965,630 shares, subject to anti-dilution adjustments. the convertible note hedge and warrants are both considered indexed to our common stock and classified as equity; therefore, the convertible note hedge and warrants are not accounted for as derivative instruments. derivative instruments we transact business in various foreign countries and are, therefore, subject to risk of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. from time to time we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge transactional exposure associated with commitments arising from trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable and fixed purchase obligations denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective operating entity. all derivative instruments are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their respective fair market values. we have elected not to prepare and maintain the documentation required to qualify our forward contracts for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, changes in fair value are recorded in our consolidated statements of operations. for further discussion related to our management of foreign currency risk see note 10 derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 28, 2017 was $48.8 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 28, 2017 was a gross $0.1 million asset and a gross $0.2 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. the forward contracts generally expire within three months of the period ended february 28, 2017. the forward contracts will settle in australian dollars, euros, hong kong dollars, japanese yen, norwegian krona, singapore dollars, swedish krona, swiss francs and u.s. dollars. the aggregate notional amount of outstanding forward contracts at february 29, 2016 was $72.6 million. the fair value of these outstanding contracts at february 29, 2016 was a gross $0.6 million asset and a gross $0.5 million liability, and is recorded in other current assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. 70 table of contents index to financial statements