risk factors 12 risk factors the following discussion is divided into three sections. the first section, which begins immediately following this paragraph, discusses some of the risks that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the second section, captioned risks related to the separation and our operation as an independent publicly traded company, discusses some of the risks relating to our separation into an independent publicly traded company. the third section, captioned risks related to our common stock, discusses some of the risks relating to an investment in our common stock. you should carefully review all of these sections, as well as our combined and consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the other information appearing in this report, for important information regarding risks that affect us. risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may harm our business. the global payments industry is highly competitive. we compete against businesses in varied industries, many of which are larger than we are, have a dominant and secure position in other industries, or offer other goods and services to consumers and merchants which we do not offer. as online and offline commerce are increasingly converging, the pace of change, innovation and disruption is also increasing. the global payments industry is rapidly changing, highly innovative and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny, which may negatively affect the competitive landscape. we compete against a wide range of businesses with varying roles in all forms of payments, including: paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks); providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit and debit cards, and automated clearing house transactions (in particular, well-established banks); payment networks which facilitate payments for credit card users; providers of digital wallets which offer customers the ability to pay online and/or on mobile devices through a variety of payment methods, including with mobile applications, through contactless payments, and with a variety of payment cards (these providers include visa, mastercard, american express, amazon.com, wal-mart, the merchant customer exchange (mcx) initiative supported by major u.s. retailers, apple, google, and others); providers of mobile payments solutions that use tokenized card data approaches and near field communication (nfc) functionality (e.g., apple's mobile apple pay) or host card emulation (hce) functionality to eliminate the need for access to the physical secure element in the device (e.g., google's android solution); payment-card processors that offer their services to merchants, including for card on file payments where the merchant invites the consumer to select a payment method for their first transaction, and subsequently uses the same payment method for subsequent transactions; providers of person-to-person payments that facilitate individuals sending money with an email address or mobile phone number, such as facebook messaging payments, google and many banks; merchants and merchant associations providing proprietary payment networks to facilitate payments within their own retail network, such as wal-mart; money remitters, such as moneygram, western union, global payments, inc. and euronet; and providers of card readers for mobile devices and of other point-of-sale and multi-channel technologies. we often partner with many of these businesses. we also face competition and potential competition from: services that provide online merchants the ability to offer their customers the option of paying for purchases from their bank account or paying on credit in the united states and abroad; issuers of stored value targeted at online payments; other international online payment-services providers; other providers of online account-based payments; payment services targeting users of social networks and online gaming, including those offering billing to the consumer's mobile phone account; mobile payment services between bank accounts; payment services enabling banks to offer their online banking customers the ability to send and receive payments through their bank account; online shopping services that provide special offers linked to a specific payment provider; and services that help merchants accept and manage virtual currencies. 12 table of contents some of these payment providers have greater customer bases, volume, scale, resources, and market share than we do, which may provide significant competitive advantages. some of our competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, and other regulatory requirements. they may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services, and they may offer lower prices or more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. we also expect new entrants, as well as established banks and other financial institutions that do not currently offer online payments, to offer competitive products and services in the future. in addition, some merchants provide such services for themselves. competing services tied to established banks and other financial institutions may engender greater consumer confidence in the safety and efficacy of their services. in certain countries, such as germany, netherlands and australia, electronic funds transfer is a leading method of payment for both online and offline transactions with which our products compete. we compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain and engage both merchants and consumers; ability to show that merchants will achieve incremental sales by offering our paypal services; security of transactions and the ability for consumers to use our paypal products and services without sharing their financial information with the merchant or the party they are paying; simplicity of our fee structure; ability to develop services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments and payments at the retail point of sale; trust in our dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service; brand recognition; website, mobile platform and application onboarding, ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability and data security; ease and quality of integration into third-party mobile applications and operating systems; and quality of developer tools, such as our application programming interfaces and software development kits. if we are not able to differentiate our business from those of our competitors, drive value for our customers, or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against our competitors. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely harm our business. our operating and financial results come primarily from transactions involving payments made in a reporting period and are therefore subject to fluctuations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock. our operating and financial results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and may continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including as a result of the risks set forth in this risk factors section. it is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings (loss) accurately. in view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. we do not have a backlog, and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come primarily from transactions involving payments during that quarter. due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast expenses as a percentage of net revenues. quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of net revenues reflected in our financial statements may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. the trading price of our common stock could decline, perhaps substantially, as a result of the factors described in this paragraph. global and regional economic conditions could harm our business. our operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions. adverse economic conditions and events have negatively impacted regional and global financial markets in the past and will likely continue to do so from time to time in the future. these events and conditions could have a negative and adverse impact on the companies and customers with which we do business. in addition, financial turmoil affecting the banking system or financial markets could cause additional consolidation of the financial services industry, significant financial service institution failures, new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility or distress in the fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. adverse impacts to the companies and customers with which we do business, the banking system, or financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, including a reduction in the volume and prices of transactions on our payments platforms. 13 table of contents if we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments, particularly developments with respect to mobile payments, to provide new and innovative programs, products and services, the use of our products and our revenues could decline. rapid, significant, and disruptive technological changes continue to impact the industries in which we operate, including developments in payment card tokenization, ecommerce (e.g., social commerce), mobile, virtual currencies and near field communication and other proximity payment devices, such as contactless payments. we cannot predict the effects of technological changes on our business. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge, which may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. developing and incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures, take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. in addition, our ability to adopt new services and develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, payments networks, new laws and regulations, resistance to change from consumers or merchants, or third-party intellectual property rights. our success will depend on our ability to develop and incorporate new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards; if we are unable to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. for example, mobile devices are increasingly used for ecommerce transactions and payments, and a significant and growing portion of our customers access our payments platform through mobile devices. we may lose customers if we are not able to continue to meet our customers' mobile and multi-screen experience expectations. the variety of technical and other configurations across different mobile devices and platforms increases the challenges associated with this environment. in addition, a number of other companies with significant resources and a number of innovative startups have introduced products and services focusing on mobile markets. our ability to successfully address the challenges posed by the rapidly evolving market for mobile transactions is crucial to our continued success, and any failure to continue to increase the volume of mobile transactions effected through our payments platform could harm our business. changes in how consumers fund their paypal transactions could harm our business. we pay significant transaction fees when consumers fund payment transactions using credit cards, lower fees when consumers fund payments with debit cards, nominal fees when consumers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, and nominal fees when consumers fund payment transactions from an existing paypal account balance or through our paypal credit products. our financial success is highly sensitive to changes in the rate at which our consumers fund payments using credit and debit cards (collectively, payment cards ), which can significantly increase our costs. some of our consumers may prefer to use payment cards, especially if these payment cards offer functionality and benefits not associated with the use of their bank accounts. some of our offerings, including the ability of consumers to make a limited number of guest payments without opening a paypal account, have a higher rate of payment card funding than our basic product offering. an increase in the portion of our payment volume funded using payment cards or in fees associated with our funding mix, or other events or developments that make it more difficult or costly for us to fund transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts or existing paypal account balances, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business. some of our plans to lower our funding costs, including our paypal credit products and enabling consumers to defer payment for a short period of time on some transactions, may increase the risk to us of nonpayment by consumers. our business is subject to cyberattacks and security and privacy breaches. our business involves the collection, storage, processing and transmission of customers' personal data, including financial information. in addition, a significant number of our customers authorize us to bill their payment card or bank accounts directly for all transaction and other fees charged by us. we have built our reputation on the premise that our payments platform offers customers a secure way to make payments. an increasing number of organizations, including large on-line and off-line merchants and businesses, other large internet companies, financial institutions, and government institutions, have disclosed breaches of their information security systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks, including on portions of their websites or infrastructure. for example, in may 2014, ebay inc. publicly announced that criminals were able to penetrate and steal certain data, including user names, encrypted user passwords and other non-financial user data, from certain of ebay's marketplaces business unit databases, which led to ebay marketplaces requiring a password reset and fewer ebay marketplaces transactions using our paypal services. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized, improper or illegal access to our systems, our data or customers' data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly evolving, may be difficult to detect quickly, and often are not recognized until launched against a target. unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including, among others, hacking into the systems or facilities of us or our partners or customers, or attempting to fraudulently 14 table of contents induce our employees, partners, customers or others into disclosing user names, passwords, payment card information, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. certain efforts may be state-sponsored and supported by significant financial and technological resources, making them even more difficult to detect. as a result of our prominence, we believe that we are a particularly attractive target for such breaches and attacks. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect our data and customer data and to prevent data loss and other security breaches, and expect to expend significant additional resources to bolster these protections, these security measures cannot provide absolute security, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security breaches, and third parties may be able to access our customers' personal or proprietary information and payment card data that are stored on or accessible through those systems. our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, or other irregularities. any actual or perceived breach of our security could interrupt our operations; result in our systems or services being unavailable; result in improper disclosure of data; materially harm our reputation and brand; result in significant legal and financial exposure; lead to loss of customer confidence in, or decreased use of, our products and services; and adversely affect our business and results of operations. any breaches of network or data security at our partners or customers could have similar effects. in addition, our customers could have vulnerabilities on their own computer systems that are entirely unrelated to our systems, but could mistakenly attribute their own vulnerabilities to paypal. in addition, under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, or that is stored by our direct payment card processing customers, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. we also expect to expend significant additional resources to protect against security or privacy breaches, and may be required to redress problems caused by breaches. among other reasons, financial services regulators in various jurisdictions, including the united states and the european union, have implemented or are considering proposals to impose new authentication requirements on banks and payment processors intended to reduce online fraud, which could impose significant costs, require us to change our business practices, make it more difficult for new customers to join paypal, and reduce the ease of use of our products, which could harm our business. additionally, our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches, and we may not be able to collect fully, if at all, under these insurance policies. systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business. our systems may experience service interruptions or degradation because of hardware and software defects or malfunctions, computer denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. our systems also may be subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. in addition, as a provider of payments solutions, we are subject to increased scrutiny by regulators that may require specific business continuity, resiliency and disaster recovery plans and more rigorous testing of such plans. this increased scrutiny may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our resources from other business priorities. we have experienced and will likely continue to experience system failures, denial of service attacks and other events or conditions from time to time that interrupt the availability or reduce or affect the speed or functionality of our products and services. these events have resulted and likely will result in loss of revenue. a prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the availability, speed or other functionality of our products and services could materially harm our business. frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential customers to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our products and services, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. moreover, to the extent that any system failure or similar event results in damages to our customers or their businesses, these customers could seek significant compensation or contractual penalties from us for their losses and those claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address, and could have other consequences described in this risk factors section under the caption our business is subject to cyberattacks and security and privacy breaches. our payments platform has suffered significant intermittent unavailability. reliability is particularly critical for us because the full-time availability of our paypal products and services is critical to our goal of gaining widespread acceptance among consumers and merchants for digital and mobile payments. we have undertaken certain system upgrades and re-platforming efforts designed to improve our reliability and speed. these efforts are costly and time-consuming, involve significant technical risk and may divert our resources from new features and products, and there can be no guarantee that these efforts will succeed. because we are a regulated financial institution in certain jurisdictions, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to regulatory scrutiny, significant fines and penalties, and mandatory and costly changes to our business practices, and ultimately could cause us to lose 15 table of contents existing licenses that we need to operate or prevent or delay us from obtaining additional licenses that we need to expand our business. we also rely on facilities, components and services supplied by third parties, including ebay, and our business may be materially adversely affected to the extent these components or services do not meet our expectations or these third parties cease to provide the services or facilities. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for all losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm our business. we do not directly access the payment card networks, such as visa and mastercard, that enable our acceptance of credit cards and debit cards, including some types of prepaid cards. accordingly, we must rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions and must pay fees for the services. from time to time, payment card networks have increased, and may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction which accesses their networks. our payment card processors may have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to us as well as increase their own fees for processing. any changes in interchange fees and assessments could increase our operating costs and reduce our operating income. in addition, in some jurisdictions, governments have required visa and mastercard to reduce interchange fees, or have opened investigations as to whether visa's or mastercard's interchange fees and practices violate antitrust law. in the united states, the federal reserve board issued a final rule capping debit card interchange fees at significantly lower rates than visa or mastercard previously charged. in the european union, the multilateral interchange fee ( mif ) regulation limits credit and debit interchange fees for payments and imposes business rules on card processing services. any material reduction in credit or debit card interchange rates in the united states or other markets could adversely affect our competitive position against traditional credit and debit card service providers, and may subject us to pricing pressure, although it would also lower our costs. future changes to those regulations could potentially adversely affect our business. we are required by our processors to comply with payment card network operating rules, including special operating rules for payment service providers to merchants, and we have agreed to reimburse our processors for any fines they are assessed by payment card networks as a result of any rule violations by us or our merchants. the payment card networks set and interpret the card operating rules. from time to time, the networks have alleged that various aspects of our business model violate these operating rules. if such allegations are not resolved, they may result in material fines and penalties or require changes in our business practices that may be costly. the payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or re-interpret existing rules that we or our processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or costly to implement. as a result, we could lose our ability to give consumers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or the choice of currency in which they would like their payment card to be charged. if we are unable to accept payment cards or are meaningfully limited in our ability to do so, our business would be adversely affected. we and our payment card processors have implemented specific business processes for merchants to comply with payment card network operating rules for providing services to merchants. any failure to comply with these rules could result in fines. we are also subject to fines from payment card networks if we fail to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or that are considered high risk, primarily the sale of certain types of digital content. for high risk merchants, we must either prevent such merchants from using our paypal services or register such merchants with the payment card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. although the amount of these fines has not been material to date, additional fines in the future could become material and could result in a termination of our ability to accept payment cards or require changes in our process for registering new customers, which would materially harm our business. payment card network rules may also increase the cost of, impose restrictions on, or otherwise negatively impact the development of, our retail point-of-sale solutions, which may negatively impact their deployment and adoption. failure to deal effectively with fraud, fictitious transactions, bad transactions, and negative customer experiences would increase our loss rate and harm our business, and could severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services. we incur substantial losses due to claims from consumers that merchants have not performed or that their goods or services do not match the merchant's description. we seek to recover such losses from the merchant, but may not be able to recover in full if the merchant is unwilling or unable to pay. we also incur losses from claims that the consumer did not authorize the purchase, from consumer fraud, from erroneous transmissions and from customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments. in addition, if losses incurred by us related to payment card transactions become excessive, they could 16 table of contents potentially result in our losing the right to accept payment cards for payment, which would harm our business. our paypal credit products are similarly subject to the risk of fraudulent activity. we have taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. if these measures do not succeed, our business could be harmed. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, australian dollar and canadian dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency risk. the strengthening or weakening of the u.s. dollar versus the british pound, euro, australian dollar, and canadian dollar impacts the translation of our net revenues generated in these foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. additionally, in connection with providing our services in multiple currencies, we set our foreign exchange rates twice per day. we may face financial exposure if we incorrectly set our foreign exchange rates or as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the times that we set them. given that we also hold some corporate and customer funds in non-u.s. currencies, our financial results are affected by the translation of these non-u.s. currencies into u.s. dollars. we also have foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. while we regularly enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation and balance sheet exposure, it is impossible to predict or eliminate the effects of this exposure. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could significantly impact our financial results. any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business. cross-border trade (i.e., transactions where the merchant or consumer were in different countries) is an important source of our revenue and profits. cross-border transactions generally provide higher revenues and operating income than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. cross-border trade also represents our primary (and in some cases, our only) presence in certain important markets. cross-border trade is subject to, and may be impacted by, foreign exchange rate fluctuations. in addition, the potential interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the merchant and of the consumer) are often extremely complicated in the context of cross-border trade. the interpretation and/or application of such laws could impose additional requirements (which may impose conflicting obligations) and restrictions on cross-border trade. any factors that increase the costs of cross-border trade or restrict, delay, or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical would lower our revenues and profits and could harm our business. our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight, as well as extensive, complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations. our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. for a discussion of how government regulation impacts key aspects of our business, please see item i - business government regulation in this annual report on form 10-k. our business is also subject to laws, rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations in the markets in which we operate, including (but not limited to) those governing banking, credit, deposit taking, cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange, privacy, data protection, banking secrecy, payment services (including payment processing and settlement services), consumer protection, anti-money laundering, and counter-terrorist financing. the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to us are extensive, complex, frequently changing, and increasing in number, and may impose overlapping and/or conflicting requirements or obligations. financial and political events have increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on the payments industry, and regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our business. our success and increased visibility may result in increased regulatory oversight and tighter enforcement of rules and regulations that may apply to our business. as we expand and localize our international activities, we are increasingly becoming obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. in addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and provide services to customers worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our customers are required to comply with their laws. laws regulating the internet, mobile and related technologies outside of the united states often impose different, more specific, or even conflicting obligations on us , as well as broader liability. for example, certain transactions that may be permissible in a local jurisdiction may be prohibited by regulations of u.s. department of treasury's office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) or u.s. anti-money laundering or counter-terrorist financing regulations. 17 table of contents any failure or perceived failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations (including changes to or expansion of the interpretation of those laws and regulations), including those discussed in this risk factor, may subject us to significant fines, penalties, criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, and other enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions; result in additional compliance and licensure requirements; increase regulatory scrutiny of our business; restrict our operations; force us to change our business practices, make product or operational changes or delay planned product launches or improvements. the foregoing could, individually or in the aggregate, expose us to significant liability, impose significant costs, require us to expend substantial resources, increase the cost and complexity of compliance, damage our brand and business, make our products and services less attractive, result in the loss of customers, limit our ability to grow the business, adversely affect our results of operations, and harm our reputation. the complexity of u.s. federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes, coupled with the global scope of our operations and the evolving global regulatory environment, could result in a single event giving rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and legal and regulatory proceedings by multiple government authorities in different jurisdictions. we have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws, and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations. payments regulation in the united states, paypal, inc. has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent) in the states where it is required, as well as in the district of columbia, the u.s. virgin islands and puerto rico. this license includes not only the paypal branded products and services in these states, but also our venmo branded products and services. our subsidiary, xoom, is also licensed as a money transmitter in certain u.s. states. as licensed money transmitters, paypal and xoom are subject to restrictions with respect to their investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements and inspection by state regulatory agencies. accordingly, if we violate these laws or regulations, we could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change our business practices or be required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose substantial costs. while we currently allow our consumers with credit cards to send payments from approximately 200 markets, we allow customers in only approximately half of those markets (including the united states) to also receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can withdraw funds. these limitations may affect our ability to grow our business in these markets. of the markets whose residents can use our paypal services, approximately 30 markets are in member states of the european union. we provide our services to customers in the european union through paypal (europe) s. r.l. et cie, sca ( paypal (europe) ), our wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in luxembourg. accordingly, paypal (europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money-laundering, capitalization, fund management, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, information security, banking secrecy, taxation, sanctions, or other requirements imposed on luxembourg banks. in addition, european union laws and regulations are typically subject to different and potentially inconsistent interpretations by the countries that are members of the european union, which can make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. in australia, we serve our customers through paypal australia pty. ltd. ( paypal australia ), which is licensed by the australian securities and investments commission as a provider of a non-cash payment product and by the australian prudential regulation authority as a purchased payment facility provider, which is a type of authorized depository institution. accordingly, paypal australia is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the product disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, privacy, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on australian depository institutions. in many of the other markets in which we do business, including canada and a number of markets in asia, central america and south america, we serve our customers through paypal pte. ltd., our wholly-owned subsidiary that is based in singapore. paypal pte. ltd. is supervised by the monetary authority of singapore and is designated as a holder of a stored value facility and does not hold a remittance license. as a result, paypal pte. ltd. is not able to offer outbound remittance payments (including donations to charities) from singapore, and can only offer payments for the purchase of goods and services in singapore. in many of the markets (other than singapore) served by paypal pte. ltd., it is unclear and uncertain whether our singapore-based service is subject only to singapore law or, if it is subject to the application of local laws, whether such local laws would require a payment processor like us to be licensed as a payments service, bank, financial institution or otherwise. we are also subject to regulation in other markets in which we do business and we have been and expect to continue to be required to apply for various licenses, certifications and regulatory approvals in a number of the countries where we provide our services. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such licenses. even if we were able to obtain such licenses, there are substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining such licenses, and we could be subject to fines or other enforcement action if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance 18 table of contents or other requirements of such licenses. these factors could impose substantial additional costs and involve considerable delay to the development or provision of our products in certain countries. in many other countries it may not be clear whether we are required to be licensed as a payment services provider, bank, financial institution or otherwise. in such markets, we may rely on local banks to process payments and conduct foreign exchange in local currency. local regulators may use their power to slow or halt payments to local merchants conducted through the local bank. such regulatory actions or the need to obtain licenses, certifications or other regulatory approvals could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay to the provision or development of our services in a given market, or could require significant and costly operational changes or prevent us from providing any services in a given market. consumer protection we are subject to consumer protection laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. the financial services sector has been increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny. in the u.s., we have been, and we expect that we will continue to be, required to make additional disclosures to our consumers and to comply with new restrictions and requirements on our activities. among other things, our services are subject to the electronic fund transfer act and regulation e issued by the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ). under such regulations, among other things, we are required to provide advance disclosure of changes to our services, to follow specified error resolution procedures and to reimburse consumers for losses from certain transactions not authorized by the consumer. additionally, even technical violations of these laws can result in assessment of actual damages or statutory damages or penalties of up to $1,000 in individual cases or up to $500,000 per violation in any class action and treble damages in some instances, and we could also be liable for plaintiffs' attorneys' fees. we are subject to, and have paid amounts in settlement of, lawsuits containing allegations that our business violated the electronic fund transfer act and regulation e or otherwise advance claims for relief relating to our business practices (e.g., that we improperly held consumer funds or otherwise improperly limited consumer accounts). in january 2012, the cfpb finalized rules under regulation e, mandated by the dodd-frank act, which required us, beginning in october 2013, to provide additional disclosures, error resolution rights, and cancellation rights to u.s. consumers who make international remittance payments. in november 2014, the cfpb proposed a new prepaid account rule that would apply to prepaid cards, mobile wallets and potentially paypal accounts. in december 2014, we became subject to cfpb supervision and examination pursuant to a new regulation that allows the cfpb to supervise all companies, including paypal, that provide more than one million international remittance transfers per year. under the regulation, cfpb examiners are now able to examine us for compliance with the remittance transfer rule and other laws and regulations. these and other rules promulgated by the cfpb could increase our costs and require us to expend substantial resources and make changes to our business practices. in may 2015, we entered into a stipulated final judgment and consent order ("consent order") with the cfpb in which we settled regulatory claims arising from paypal credit practices between 2011 and 2015. the consent order included obligations on paypal to pay $15 million in redress to consumers and a $10 million civil monetary penalty, and required paypal to make various changes to the paypal credit disclosures and related business practices. we continue to cooperate and engage with the cfpb and work to ensure compliance with the consent order, which may result in us incurring additional costs associated with compliance or redress. paypal (europe) offers its services in european union countries through a passport notification process through the luxembourg regulator to regulators in other european union member states pursuant to european union directives, and has completed the passport notification process in all european union member countries. the regulators in these countries could notify paypal (europe) of local consumer protection laws that apply to its business, in addition to luxembourg consumer protection law, and could also seek to persuade the luxembourg regulator to order paypal (europe) to conduct its activities in the local country through a branch office. these or similar actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, our plans for expanding our business in european union countries. in addition, the countries that are members of the european union may each have different and potentially inconsistent interpretations of regulations implementing the european union payment services directive, which could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. the european commission has proposed revisions to the payments services and anti-money laundering directives, which could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. finally, if the assets of paypal (europe) exceed certain thresholds, or if the european central bank ("ecb") determines that paypal (europe) is a significant supervised entity or that some activity of paypal (europe) is subject to oversight by the ecb, paypal (europe) or certain of its activities could become directly regulated by the ecb in addition to the luxembourg regulator, the commission de surveillance du secteur financier , as our national supervisor, which could subject us to additional requirements and would likely increase compliance costs. 19 table of contents anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing we are subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, our involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. we routinely report to the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control ("ofac") on payments we have rejected or blocked pursuant to ofac sanctions regulations and on any possible violations of those regulations. in march 2015, we reached a settlement with ofac regarding possible violations arising from our practices between 2009 and 2013. in addition, we continue to cooperate with ofac regarding other transactions that could also possibly be in violation of ofac sanctions regulations. in addition, we continue to cooperate with ofac regarding other transactions that we have self-reported could also possibly be in violation of ofac sanctions regulations. subsequent to our march 2015 settlement, we have received new subpoenas from ofac seeking additional information about certain of these transactions. such self-reported transactions could result in claims or actions against us including litigation, injunctions, damage awards, fines or penalties, or require us to change our business practices that could result in a material loss, require significant management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources or otherwise harm our business. violation of ofac sanctions regulations that ofac determines to be egregious can result in statutory penalties of up to $250,000 per transaction. for a discussion of our dealings with ofac, please see note 11: commitments and contingencies - litigation and regulatory matters. u.s. and other regulators globally continue to increase their scrutiny of compliance with these obligations, which may require us to further revise or expand our compliance program, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of our customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. many countries in which we operate also have anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and we have been and continue to be required to make changes to our compliance program in various jurisdictions in response. regulators regularly re-examine the transaction volume thresholds at which we must obtain and keep applicable records or verify identities of customers and any change in such thresholds could result in greater costs for compliance. privacy and protection of user data we are subject to a number of laws, rules and directives (which we refer to as "privacy laws") relating to the collection, use, retention, security, processing and transfer (which we refer to as "process") of personally identifiable information about our customers and employees (sometimes called personal data) in the countries where we operate. much of the personal information that we process, especially financial information, is regulated by multiple privacy laws and, in some cases, the privacy laws of multiple jurisdictions. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between or among us, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relationships. the european court of justice in the schrems case has ruled that the u.s.-e.u. safe harbor framework clauses, one compliance method by which companies could transfer personal data regarding citizens of the european union to the united states, could no longer be relied upon. the potential impact of this ruling is subject to further determination and additional developments, including the potential development of a new form of safe harbor framework or a requirement to find alternative bases for the compliant transfer of personal data from the e.u. to the u.s. paypal, inc. has not relied on the safe harbor framework for the transfer of e.u. personal data to the united states. rather, when our company was a subsidiary of ebay inc., we relied on binding corporate rules that permitted such transfers; upon separation from ebay, we have continued to operate under these same binding corporate rules pending the approval of our application for our own independent binding corporate rules. while paypal, inc. has not relied on the safe harbor framework, some of our data processing subsidiaries, service providers, customers or other business partners do. in addition, because paypal (europe) is headquartered in luxembourg and subject to regulation as a bank in that jurisdiction, we have relied on the one-stop-shop concept under which luxembourg has been our lead data protection regulator in the e.u. however, a recent european court of justice ruling (weltimmo) affecting companies that do business in the e.u. potentially could make us subject to the local data protection laws or regulatory enforcement activities of the various e.u. member states in which we have established legal entities. regulatory scrutiny of privacy, data protection, collection, use and sharing of data is increasing on a global basis. there is uncertainty associated with the legal and regulatory environment around privacy and data protection laws, which continue to develop in ways we cannot predict. privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and impose inconsistent or conflicting requirements. complying with varying jurisdictional requirements could increase the costs and complexity of compliance or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business, and violations of privacy and data protection-related laws can result in significant penalties and damage to our brand and business. in addition, compliance with inconsistent privacy laws may restrict our ability to provide services to our customers. a determination that there have been violations of laws of privacy or data protection laws could expose us to significant damage awards, fines and other penalties that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business and reputation. 20 table of contents in addition, because of the large number of text messages, emails, phone calls and other communications we send or make to our customers for various business purposes, communication-related privacy laws that provide a specified monetary damage award or fine for each violation could result in particularly significant damage awards or fines. for example, under the telephone consumer protection act ("tcpa"), in the u.s., plaintiffs may seek actual monetary loss or statutory damages of $500 per violation, whichever is greater, and courts may treble the damage award for willful or knowing violations. we have been and may be subject to lawsuits (including class-action lawsuits) containing allegations that our business violated the tcpa. these lawsuits seek damages (including statutory damages) and injunctive relief, among other remedies. given the large number of communications we send to our customers, a determination that there have been violations of the tcpa or other communications-based statutes could expose us to significant damage awards that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. we post on our websites our privacy policies and practices including concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any applicable regulatory requirements or orders, or privacy, data protection, information security or consumer protection-related privacy laws and regulations in one or more jurisdictions could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, including class action privacy litigation in certain jurisdictions, subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase the costs and complexity of compliance, and adversely affect our business. data protection, privacy and information security have become the subject of increasing public, media and legislative concern. if our customers were to reduce their use of our products and services as a result of these concerns, our business could be harmed. as noted above, we are also subject to the possibility of security and privacy breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these privacy laws. paypal is not a bank or licensed lender in the united states and relies upon third parties to make loans and provide other products critical to our business. as paypal is neither a chartered financial institution nor licensed to make loans in any state, we rely on a third party chartered financial institution to issue the paypal credit consumer product in the united states, and a different chartered financial institution to issue the paypal working capital product in the united states. both of these chartered financial institutions are industrial banks chartered by the state of utah. in the event of a termination or interruption in the ability of the chartered financial institution that currently issues the paypal credit consumer product in the united states to lend under the paypal credit consumer product, our chartered financial institution that issues the paypal working capital product in the u.s. has agreed to take ownership of (and originate loans with respect to) all consumer accounts. nevertheless, any termination or interruption of either bank's ability to lend could result in the inability to originate any new paypal credit or paypal working capital loans. in the event of either bank's inability to lend, we would either need to reach a similar agreement with another chartered financial institution or obtain our own bank charter or licenses. we may be unable to reach a similar agreement with another partner on favorable terms or at all, and obtaining a bank charter or lending licenses would be a time-consuming and costly process and would subject us to additional laws and regulatory requirements, which could be burdensome and increase our costs. in addition, our commercial relationships with third parties which are federally supervised u.s. financial institutions could subject us to examination by their federal banking regulators with respect to certain services that we provide. our credit products expose us to additional risks. our paypal credit and paypal working capital products are offered to a wide range of consumers and merchants, and the financial success of these products depends on the effective management of the risk related to these products. the lender for the paypal credit product extends credit using proprietary segmentation and credit algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of specific consumers based on their past purchasing and payment history as well as their credit scores. similarly, to assess a merchant who wishes to obtain a paypal working capital advance, among other indicators, the lender applies a proprietary risk model to help predict the merchant's ability to repay the working capital advance. these risk models may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer or merchant due to inaccurate assumptions about the particular consumer or merchant or the economic environment or limited product history, among other factors. the accuracy of these risk models and the ability of the lender and our ability to manage credit risk related to our paypal credit and paypal working capital products may also be affected by legal or regulatory changes (e.g., bankruptcy laws and minimum payment regulations), competitors' actions, changes in consumer behavior, changes in the economic environment and other factors. like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from consumer credit, we face the risk that paypal credit consumer account holders will default on their payment obligation, making the receivables uncollectible and creating the risk of potential charge-offs. the non-payment rate among account holders may increase due to, among other things, changes to underwriting standards, worsening economic conditions, such as a recession or greater austerity in various countries, and high unemployment 21 table of contents rates. account holders who miss payments often fail to repay their loans, and account holders who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their loans. we purchase receivables related to paypal credit and paypal working capital products. if we are unable to fund our purchase of these receivables adequately or in a cost-effective manner, or if we are unable to efficiently manage the cash resources utilized for these purposes, our business could be harmed. our international expansion of our paypal credit product offerings exposes us to additional risks, including those discussed below under the risk factor titled our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. we are exposed to interest rate risk from our investment portfolio and from interest-rate sensitive assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our balance sheet as customer accounts. the assets underlying our customer balances we hold on our balance sheet as customer accounts are maintained in interest and non-interest bearing bank deposits, time deposits, corporate debt securities and u.s. and foreign government and agency securities. we seek to preserve principal while holding eligible liquid assets, as defined by applicable regulatory requirements and commercial law in jurisdictions in which we operate, equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of all customer balances. we do not pay interest on amounts due to customers. in addition, fluctuations in interest rates may adversely impact our customers' spending levels and ability and willingness to pay outstanding amounts owed to us. higher interest rates often lead to higher payment obligations by customers to us and other lenders under mortgage, credit card and other consumer loans, which may reduce our customers' ability to remain current on their obligations to us and therefore lead to increased delinquencies, charge-offs and allowance for loan and interest receivable which could have an adverse effect on our net income. in july 2015, we entered into a revolving credit facility. as a result, we will be exposed to fluctuations in interest rates to the extent of our borrowings under the facility, which bear interest at a floating rate. changes to our buyer and seller protection programs could increase our loss rate. our buyer and seller protection programs protect merchants and consumers from fraudulent transactions. in 2015, we increased the scope of our buyer protection program to cover digital goods and intangible goods and services. in addition, consumers who pay through paypal may have reimbursement rights from their payment card issuer (usually a bank), which in turn will seek recovery from us. the risk of losses from our buyer and seller protection programs are specific to individual buyers, sellers and transactions, and may also be impacted by regional variations to these programs, modifications to these programs resulting from changes in regulatory requirements, or changes that we decide to implement, such as expanding the scope of transactions covered by one or more of these programs. upon paypal becoming an independent publicly-traded company on july 17, 2015 through the distribution of 100 percent of the outstanding capital stock of paypal to ebay's stockholders, which we refer to as the distribution, we extended our protection programs in several countries to cover certain customers' purchases on ebay, and our costs associated with these programs have therefore increased. increases in our loss rate, including as a result of changing our buyer and seller protection programs, could harm our business. our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business. our international operations, especially in european union countries (in particular, united kingdom and germany) and china, have generated approximately one-half of our net revenues in recent years. in addition to uncertainty about our ability to generate revenues from our foreign operations and expand into international markets, and the foreign currency risks discussed earlier in this risk factors section under the caption we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: expenses associated with localizing our products and services and customer data, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency and adapting our products and services to local preferences (e.g., payment methods) with which we may have limited or no experience; trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; stringent local labor laws and regulations; 22 table of contents credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange restrictions or extreme fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates for a particular currency; political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; geopolitical events, including natural disasters, public health issues, acts of war, and terrorism; import or export regulations; compliance with u.s. laws and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, and other local anticorruption laws; compliance with u.s. and foreign laws designed to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities; antitrust and competition regulations; potentially adverse tax developments and consequences; economic uncertainties relating to sovereign and other debt; different, uncertain, or more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy, and other laws; risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws; risks related to multiple overlapping legal or regulatory regimes, which may impose conflicting requirements on us; national or regional differences in macroeconomic growth rates; local licensing and reporting obligations; and increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. violations of the complex foreign and u.s. laws, rules and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, violations by our employees, contractors, or agents could nevertheless occur. these risks are inherent in our international operations and expansion, may increase our costs of doing business internationally, and could harm our business. use of our payments services for illegal purposes could harm our business. our payment system is susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses, including money laundering, terrorist financing, illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software, movies, music, and other copyrighted or trademarked goods (in particular, digital goods), money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, online securities fraud, or to facilitate other illegal activity. certain activity that may be legal in one country may be illegal in another country, and a merchant may intentionally or inadvertently be found responsible for importing illegal goods, creating liability to us. changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities and additional payments-related proposals are under active consideration by government authorities. intellectual property rights owners or government authorities may seek to bring legal action against providers of payments solutions, including paypal, that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing items. any resulting claims could result in reputational harm and any resulting liabilities, loss of transaction volume or increased costs could harm our business. our failure to manage the assets underlying our customer funds properly could harm our business. our ability to manage and account accurately for the assets underlying our customer funds requires a high level of internal controls. as our business continues to grow and we expand our product offerings, we must continue to strengthen our associated internal controls. our success requires significant public confidence in our ability to handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. any failure to maintain the necessary controls or to manage the assets underlying our customer funds accurately could result in reputational harm, lead customers to discontinue or reduce their use of our products and result in significant penalties and fines, which could harm our business. we are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws. we are subject to scrutiny by various government agencies under u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including antitrust and competition laws. an increasing number of jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the united states, individual states, other countries, or the european commission, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. an increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities, including increased scrutiny in large markets such as china. our business agreements or arrangements with customers or other companies could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. some regulators, particularly those outside of the 23 table of contents united states, may perceive our business to be used so broadly that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. any claims or investigations, even if without foundation, may be very expensive to defend or respond to, involve negative publicity and substantial diversion of management time and effort and could result in significant judgments against us or require us to change our business practices. we are subject to patent litigation. we have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties' patents. at any given time, we are typically a defendant in a number of patent lawsuits and have been notified of several other potential patent disputes. we expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims because, among other reasons: our products and services continue to expand in scope and complexity; we continue to expand into new business areas, including through acquisitions; and the number of patent owners who may claim that we, any of the companies that we have acquired, or our customers infringe their patents, and the aggregate number of patents controlled by such patent owners, continues to increase. such claims may be brought directly against us and/or against our customers whom we may indemnify either because we are contractually obligated to do so or we choose to do so as a business matter. we believe that an increasing number of these claims against us and other technology companies have been, and continue to be, initiated by third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. in addition, we have seen significant patent disputes between operating companies in some technology industries. patent claims, whether meritorious or not, are time-consuming and costly to defend and resolve, and could require us to make expensive changes in our methods of doing business, enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, make substantial payments to satisfy adverse judgments or settle claims or proceedings, or cease conducting certain operations, which would harm our business. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. we believe the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets, is critical to our success. we seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the united states and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. we also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services, including confidentiality and invention assignment agreements entered into with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business. effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available, and contractual arrangements and other steps that we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property or deter independent development of equivalent or superior intellectual property rights by others. we must protect our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time-consuming. we may not be successful in protecting or enforcing our rights in every jurisdiction. also, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. we have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. these licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. any failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or significant costs incurred in doing so, could materially harm our business. as the number of products in the software industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual property infringement and other claims. litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of the patent and other intellectual property rights of others. the ultimate outcome of any allegation is uncertain and, regardless of the outcome, any such claim, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management's time and attention from our business, and require us to, among other things, stop providing transaction processing and other payment related services or redesign, stop selling our products or services, pay substantial amounts to satisfy judgments or settle claims or lawsuits, pay substantial royalty or licensing fees, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with certain parties with whom we have commercial relationships. our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation or claims arising out of intellectual property matters, may harm our business. 24 table of contents we are regularly subject to general litigation, regulatory disputes, and government inquiries. we are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits (including class actions and individual lawsuits), government and regulatory investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust law, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, information security, consumer protection, accessibility claims, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, services, escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property, and other matters. in particular, our business faces ongoing consumer protection and intellectual property litigation, as discussed above. the number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as our company has grown larger, our business has expanded in scope and geographic reach, and our products and services have increased in complexity. in addition, the laws, rules and regulations affecting our business, including those pertaining to internet and mobile commerce, payments services, and credit, are subject to ongoing interpretation by the courts and governmental authorities, and the resulting uncertainty in the scope and application of these laws, rules and regulations increases the risk that we will be subject to private claims and governmental actions alleging violations of those laws, rules and regulations. the scope, outcome and impact of claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and proceedings that we are subject to cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of the outcome, such investigations and proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that is subject to management's judgment. resolving one or more such legal and regulatory proceedings could potentially require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments, fines or penalties or to settle claims or proceedings, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business. these proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain products or services, requiring a change in our business practices in costly ways or development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. any of these consequences could materially and adversely affect our business. certain of our customer agreements contain arbitration provisions with class action waiver provisions that may limit our exposure to consumer class action litigation, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in enforcing these arbitration provisions, or the class action waiver provisions in them, in the future or in any given case. legislative, administrative or regulatory developments may directly or indirectly prohibit or limit the use of pre-dispute arbitration clauses and class action waiver provisions. any such prohibitions or limitations on or discontinuation of the use of such arbitration or class action waiver provisions could subject us to additional lawsuits, including additional consumer class action litigation, or materially impact our ability to avoid exposure from consumer class action litigation. we may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world, including with respect to our tax structure. any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the periods for which such determination is made. while we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient. in addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated (or by the incurrence of losses) in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, as a result of gains on our foreign exchange risk management program, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. in light of continuing global fiscal challenges, various levels of government and international organizations such as the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd) and european union (eu) are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative or regulatory action to increase tax revenue. these tax reform efforts are designed to ensure that corporate entities are taxed on a larger percentage of their earnings. any such tax reform or other legislative or regulatory actions to increase tax revenue could increase our effective tax rate. we and our merchants may be subject to sales reporting and record-keeping obligations. one or more states or the federal government or foreign countries may seek to impose reporting or record-keeping obligations on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. such an obligation could be imposed by legislation intended to improve tax 25 table of contents compliance (and legislation to such effect has been contemplated by several additional states and is in the process of being implemented by a number of foreign jurisdictions) or if one of our companies was deemed to be the legal agent of our merchants by a jurisdiction in which it operates. we have modified our software to meet these requirements and expect increased operational costs and changes to our customer experience in connection with complying with these reporting obligations. any failure by us to comply with these and similar reporting and record-keeping obligations could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions and could harm our business. acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties and could harm our business. we have acquired a significant number of businesses, technologies, services, and products. we expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions of certain businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. these transactions may involve significant challenges and risks, including: the potential loss of key customers, vendors and other key business partners of the companies we acquire, or dispose of, following and continuing after announcement of our transaction plans; declining employee morale and retention issues affecting employees of companies that we acquire or dispose of, which may result from changes in compensation, management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the acquired or disposed business; difficulty making strategic hires of new employees; diversion of management time and a shift of focus from operating the business to the transaction, and in the case of an acquisition, integration and administration; the need to integrate the operations, systems (including accounting, management, information, compliance, human resource and other administrative systems), technologies, products and personnel of each acquired company, which is an inherently risky and potentially lengthy and costly process; the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if such integration is delayed or not implemented, and unforeseen difficulties and expenditures that may arise as a result; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that, prior to acquisition, may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies or whose controls, procedures and policies did not meet applicable legal and other standards; potential exposure to new or increased regulatory oversight associated with new lines of business; risks associated with our expansion into new international markets; lawsuits resulting from the acquisition; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property and other litigation claims or disputes, violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; the potential loss of key employees following the transaction; the acquisition of new customer and employee personal information, which in and of itself may require regulatory approval and or additional controls, policies and procedures and subject us to additional exposure and additional complexity and costs of compliance; and our dependence on the acquired business' accounting, financial reporting, operating metrics and similar systems, controls and processes and the risk that errors or irregularities in those systems, controls and processes will lead to errors in our financial statements or make it more difficult to manage the acquired business. at any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions and any of these transactions could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to our financial condition and results of operations. it may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. any acquisitions or dispositions may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders. we may make certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and/or lack management and operational control. under such circumstances, the controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling investor, joint venture partner or joint venture company may result in reputational harm or adversely affect the value of our investment. 26 table of contents we are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services. companies providing online services may be subject to claims relating to information disseminated through their services, including claims alleging defamation, libel, breach of contract, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, among other things. the laws relating to the liability of companies providing online services for information disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges both in the united states and foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to potential liability to third parties for the customer-provided content on our sites, particularly in jurisdictions outside the united states where the applicable laws are unsettled. if we become liable for information provided by our customers and carried on our service, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain service offerings, which could harm our business. problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our customers could harm our business. a number of third parties provide services to us or to our customers. as discussed in this risk factors section under the caption changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm our business, we are dependent on banks and other payment processors that link us to the payment card and bank clearing networks to process transactions. we rely on unaffiliated third party lenders to make the consumer and other loans originated through the paypal credit and paypal working capital products. we also rely heavily on third parties to operate our services, including merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions and third parties that provide loan receivable tracking and customer statements processing. financial or regulatory issues, labor issues, or other problems that prevent these companies from providing services to us or our customers could harm our business. we have outsourced certain functions to third-party providers, including some customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations. if our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our business. price increases or financial penalties by, or service terminations, disruptions or interruptions at, companies that provide services to us and our customers and clients could also make it more difficult for our merchants to complete transactions, thereby harming our business. some third parties who provide services to us may have or gain market power and be able to increase their prices to us without competitive constraint. in addition, there can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to us or our customers will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. if any third parties were to stop providing services to us or our customers on acceptable terms, including as a result of bankruptcy, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. our developer platforms, which are open to merchants and third-party developers, subject us to additional risks. we provide third-party developers with access to application programming interfaces, software development kits and other tools designed to allow them to produce applications for use, with a particular focus on mobile applications. there can be no assurance that merchants or third-party developers will develop and maintain applications and services on our open platforms on a timely basis or at all, and a number of factors could cause such third-party developers to curtail or stop development for our platforms. in addition, our business is subject to many regulatory restrictions. it is possible that merchants and third-party developers who utilize our development platforms or tools could violate these regulatory restrictions and we may be held responsible for such violations, which could harm our business. our retail point of sale solutions expose us to additional risks. we have announced several retail point of sale solutions, which enable merchants to accept payments using a payments card reader attached to, or otherwise communicating with, a mobile device or to scan payment cards and codes using the mobile device's embedded camera, and which enable consumers to use their mobile devices to pay at the point of sale. as we continue to expand our product and service offerings at the retail point of sale, we will face additional risks, including: increased expectations from offline retailers regarding the reliability and availability of our systems and services and correspondingly lower amounts of downtime, which we may not be able to meet; significant competition at the retail point of sale, particularly from established payment card providers such as visa, mastercard and american express, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do; increased targeting by fraudsters; given that our fraud models are less developed in this area, we may experience increases in fraud and associated transaction losses as we adjust to fraudulent activity at the point of sale; 27 table of contents exposure to product liability claims to the extent that hardware devices that we produce for use at the retail point of sale malfunction or are not in compliance with laws, which could result in substantial liability and require product recalls or other actions; exposure to additional laws, rules and regulations; increased reliance on third parties involved with processing in-store payments, including independent software providers, electronic point of sale providers, hardware providers (such as cash register and pin-pad providers), payment processors and banks that enable in-store transactions; and lower operating income than our other payment solutions. unless we are able to successfully manage these risks, including driving adoption of, and significant volume through, our retail point of sale solutions over time, our business may be harmed. our success largely depends on key personnel. because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain, and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. the loss of senior management or other key personnel could harm our business. our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, including engineering and product development personnel, and our ability to attract, retain, and motivate such personnel. competition for key personnel is intense, especially in the silicon valley where our corporate headquarters are located, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified key personnel. in making employment decisions, particularly in high-technology and payments industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment, and fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees. in addition, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. the loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, or our inability to attract highly qualified senior management and other key personnel, could harm our business. risks related to the separation and our operation as an independent publicly traded company we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the separation. we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the separation of paypal from ebay inc., which we refer to as the separation, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. the separation and distribution were expected to provide the following benefits, among others: enhanced strategic and management focus; better ability to form strategic relationships; faster decision-making; more efficient allocation of capital; alignment of incentives with performance objectives; direct access to the capital markets; and a distinct investment identity. if we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits expected to result from the separation, or if such benefits are delayed, our business could be harmed. if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the internal revenue code (the code ), ebay,paypal and ebay stockholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify ebay for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. ebay received an opinion from its outside legal counsel regarding the qualification of the distribution, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code. the opinion was based on and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of ebay and paypal, including those relating to the past and future conduct of ebay and paypal. if any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if ebay or paypal breach any of their respective covenants in the separation documents, the opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. notwithstanding the opinion of counsel, the irs could determine that the distribution, together with certain related transactions, should be treated as a taxable transaction if the irs determines that any of these representations, assumptions, or undertakings upon which such opinion was based are incorrect or have been violated or if the irs disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. an opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs or any court and there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reached in the opinion. the irs did not provide any opinion in advance of the separation that our proposed transaction will be tax-free. 28 table of contents if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code, in general, ebay would recognize taxable gain as if it had sold the paypal common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, ebay stockholders who received paypal common stock in the distribution may be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares and we could incur significant liabilities. we may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital-raising transactions following the separation. in addition, we could be liable for adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in significant strategic or capital-raising transactions. to preserve the tax-free treatment to ebay of the separation and the distribution, under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with ebay, for a period of time following the distribution, we are generally prohibited from taking certain actions that prevent the distribution and related transactions from qualifying as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that we or our stockholders might consider desirable or may present us from engaging in certain capital-raising transactions. we have no history of operating as an independent, publicly traded company in our current form, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the combined and consolidated financial statements included in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k were derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of ebay and do not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, independent, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future, primarily as a result of the factors described below: prior to the separation, our business was operated by ebay as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. ebay or its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, such as legal, finance, treasury, accounting, tax, auditing, human resources, certain compliance functions, and public affairs. our historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from ebay for such functions, which are likely to be less than the comparable expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly traded company. in addition, we may need to significantly increase our investment in certain of these functions to maintain appropriate levels of administrative, legal and regulatory compliance. prior to the separation, our business was integrated with the other businesses of ebay. historically, we shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. although we have entered into arm's length agreements with ebay, including the operating agreement, these arrangements may not retain or fully capture the benefits that we enjoyed as a result of being integrated with ebay and may result in our paying higher charges than in the past for these services. this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. as a part of ebay, we benefited from, among other things, the acquisition of new customers from ebay, capital to fund acquisitions, investments and credit, and data from ebay that helps us to manage risks and maintain a low loss rate. in addition, being a part of ebay enabled us to leverage ebay's technology capabilities, data, commerce platforms and relationships with retailers, brands and large merchants worldwide. the loss of these synergies and benefits could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, were historically satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of ebay. we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or through strategic relationships or other arrangements, which may or may not be available and may be more costly. the cost of capital for our business may be higher than ebay's cost of capital prior to the separation. other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing, and business operations as a result of operating as an independent company separate from ebay. for additional information, please see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the combined and consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k. 29 table of contents ebay remains a significant source of our revenues after the distribution. after the distribution, we continue to derive a significant amount of revenues and operating income from ebay. if the operating agreement expires or is terminated prior to its expiration, or if there is a significant change in our relationship with ebay, including if ebay becomes a merchant of record, eliminates or modifies any of its risk management or customer protection programs, directs transactions to a different provider of payment services or offers ebay customers more payment options, our business could be materially harmed. ebay may fail to perform under various agreements that were executed as part of the separation or we may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expire. in connection with the separation, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with ebay as well as various other agreements, including an operating agreement, colocation services agreements, transition services agreements, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, an intellectual property matters agreement, a data sharing addendum, and a product development agreement. the separation agreement, the tax matters agreement, the employee matters agreement, and the intellectual property matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities (including by means of licensing) between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. the operating agreement, the colocation services agreements and the data sharing addendum establish certain commercial relationships between ebay and us related to payment processing, credit, information technology infrastructure and data sharing. the transition services agreements provide for the performance of certain services by each company for the benefit of the other for a limited period of time after the separation. if we or ebay is unable to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements, including its respective indemnification obligations, we could incur operational difficulties or losses or be required to make substantial indemnification or other payments to ebay. if we do not have in place our own systems and services, or if we do not have agreements with other providers of these services once these transaction agreements expire or terminate, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our financial condition and result of operations may be adversely affected. after the separation, certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their previous or continuing positions at ebay. because of their current or former positions with ebay, certain of our directors own ebay common stock and equity awards. following the separation, even though our board of directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent, some of our directors continue to have a financial interest in ebay common stock and equity awards. in addition, one of our directors continues to serve on the ebay board of directors. continuing ownership of ebay common stock and equity awards or service as a director at both companies could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if paypal and ebay were to have disagreements about the agreements between them or face decisions that could have different implications for paypal and ebay. risks related to our common stock the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the change in our stockholder base following the distribution; the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which we operate; and market conditions in the payments industry, the industries of merchants and the domestic and worldwide economy as a whole. 30 table of contents paypal's amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the state courts of the state of delaware, or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by paypal's stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against paypal and paypal's directors and officers. paypal's amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the corporation otherwise determines, the state courts of the state of delaware, or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of paypal, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director or officer of paypal to paypal or paypal's stockholders, creditors or other constituents, any action asserting a claim against paypal or any director or officer of paypal arising pursuant to any provision of the delaware general corporation law ("dgcl") or paypal's amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against paypal or any director or officer of paypal governed by the internal affairs doctrine. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of paypal's stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with paypal or paypal's directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against paypal and paypal's directors and officers. alternatively, if a court outside of delaware were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, paypal could incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect paypal's business, financial condition or results of operations. certain provisions in paypal's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or delay an acquisition of paypal, which could decrease the trading price of paypal common stock. paypal's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain certain provisions that may have the effect of deterring coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and by encouraging prospective acquirers to negotiate with paypal's board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include, among others: rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the fact that directors may not be elected, removed or replaced at stockholder-requested special meetings unless a person, entity or group owns at least a majority of paypal's outstanding common stock; the right of paypal's board to issue preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend and other rights of preferred stock without stockholder approval; and the ability of paypal's directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on paypal's board of directors in most circumstances. paypal has also elected not to be governed by section 203 of the dgcl, which provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock. paypal's amended and restated certificate of incorporation, however, contains a provision that generally mirrors section 203 of the dgcl, except that it provides for a 20% threshold instead of the 15% provided for by the dgcl. these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that paypal's stockholders may favor. certain of the above provisions were added pursuant to the agreement between ebay inc. and certain entities under the control of carl c. icahn. these provisions are not intended to make paypal immune from takeovers. however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and may delay or prevent an acquisition that paypal's board of directors determines is not in the best interests of paypal and paypal's stockholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. in addition, an acquisition or further issuance of paypal's stock (including preferred stock) could trigger the application of section 355(e) of the code. for a discussion of section 355(e), see material u.s. federal income tax consequences in our registration statement on form 10, as amended, filed with the securities and exchange commission. under the tax matters agreement, in such circumstances, paypal would be required to indemnify ebay for any resulting taxes, which could materially and adversely affect us. moreover, this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that paypal's stockholders may consider favorable. please refer to certain relationships and related person transactions and description of paypal's capital stock in our registration statement on form 10, as amended, filed with the securities and exchange commission for a more detailed description of these agreements and provisions. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54risk factors 12 risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). we do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. you should read the information in this report in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. item 1. business overview paypal holdings, inc. was incorporated in delaware in january 2015 and is a leading technology platform and digital payments company that enables digital and mobile payments on behalf of consumers and merchants worldwide. our vision is to democratize financial services, as we believe that managing and moving money is a right for all people, not just the affluent. our goal is to increase our relevance for consumers and merchants to manage and move their money anywhere in the world, anytime, on any platform and using any device. our combined payment solutions, including our paypal, paypal credit, braintree, venmo, xoom, and paydiant products, compose our proprietary payments platform. we operate a two-sided proprietary global technology platform that links our customers, both merchants and consumers, around the globe to facilitate the processing of payment transactions, allowing us to connect millions of merchants and consumers worldwide. we offer our customers the flexibility to use their account to both purchase and be paid for goods, as well as to transfer and withdraw funds. we enable consumers to more safely exchange funds with merchants using a variety of funding sources, which may include a bank account, a paypal account balance, a paypal credit account, a credit and debit card or other stored value products such as coupons and gift cards. our paypal, venmo and xoom products also make it safer and simpler for friends and family to transfer funds to each other. we offer merchants an end-to-end payments solution that provides authorization and settlement capabilities, as well as instant access to funds. we help merchants connect with their customers and manage risk. we enable consumers to engage in cross-border shopping and merchants to extend their global reach while reducing the complexity and friction involved in enabling overseas and cross-border trade. we generate revenues by charging fees for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services, primarily based on the volume of activity processed through our payments platform. we generally do not charge consumers to fund or draw from their accounts; however, we generate revenue from consumers on fees charged to exchange currencies. we also earn revenue by providing value added services to consumers and merchants, such as our paypal credit and gateway services. our gateway services include our payflow gateway services and braintree gateway service that enable merchants to accept payments online with credit or debit cards. our gateway services provide the technology that links a merchant's website to its processing network and merchant account. strategy our ability to grow revenue is affected by, among other things, consumer spending patterns, merchant and consumer adoption of digital payment methods other than cash, the expansion of multiple commerce channels, the growth of mobile devices and merchant applications on those devices, the growth of consumers globally with internet and mobile access, the pace of transition from cash and checks to digital forms of payment, our share of the digital payments market, and our ability to innovate new methods of payment that merchants and consumers value. our strategy to drive growth in our business includes the following: 4 table of contents growing our core : through expanding our global capabilities, customer base and scale, increasing our customers use of our products and services by better addressing their everyday needs related to accessing, managing and moving money and expanding the adoption of our solutions by new merchants and consumers; expanding our value proposition for customers : by focusing on trust and simplicity, providing risk management and insights from our two-sided payments platform and being technology and platform agnostic; extending through strategic partnerships : by building new strategic partnerships to provide better experiences for our customers, such as offering greater choice and flexibility, to acquire new customers and reinforce our role in the ecosystem; and seeking new areas of growth : through new international markets around the world and focusing on innovation both in the digital and the physical world. key performance metrics we measure the relevance of our products to our customers, and therefore the success of our business, through active customer accounts, payment volume and payment transactions: active customer accounts : an active customer account is a registered account that successfully sent or received at least one payment or payment reversal through our payments platform, excluding transactions processed through our gateway and paydiant products, in the past 12 months. as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately 197 million active customer accounts across more than 200 markets. a market is a geographic area or political jurisdiction, such as a country, territory, or protectorate, in which we offer our services. a country, territory or protectorate is identified by a distinct set of laws and regulations. total payment volume ( tpv ) : tpv is the value of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments platform, excluding transactions processed through our gateway and paydiant products. number of payment transactions : number of payment transactions is defined as the total number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments platform, excluding transactions processed through our gateway and paydiant products. 5 table of contents our strengths our business is built on a strong foundation designed to differentiate us from our competitors and drive growth. we believe that our competitive strengths include the following: two-sided platform - our platform connecting merchants and consumers enables paypal to offer unique end-to-end product experiences while gaining valuable insights into customer behavior through our data. our platform provides for simple digital and mobile transactions while being both brand and technology agnostic. scale - our global scale allows us to drive organic growth. as of december 31, 2016, we had 197 million active customer accounts which included 15 million active merchant accounts, and in 2016, we processed $354 billion of tpv in more than 200 markets around the world. brand - we have built a well-recognized and trusted brand. our marketing efforts play an important role in building brand visibility, usage and overall preference among customers. risk management - our risk management system and tokenization usage are designed to keep our customers safer and to process legitimate transactions around the world while minimizing illegal, high-risk, or fraudulent transactions. regulatory - we believe that our regulatory licenses, which give us the ability to operate in markets around the world, are a clear advantage and support business growth. technology our payments platform utilizes a combination of proprietary technologies and services as well as technologies and services provided by third parties to efficiently and securely facilitate transactions between millions of merchants and consumers worldwide across different channels, markets and networks. our payments platform connects with financial institutions around the world and allows consumers to make purchases using a broad range of payment methods, regardless of where a merchant is located. consumers who use our payments platform can engage in cross-border shopping by sending payments in more than 200 markets across the globe and in more than 100 currencies, withdraw funds to their bank accounts in 56 currencies and hold balances in their paypal accounts in 25 currencies. a transaction on our payments platform can involve multiple participants in addition to us: a merchant, a consumer and the consumer's funding source provider. the following diagram illustrates a typical payment transaction between a consumer and a merchant using our paypal product on our payments platform: 6 table of contents we have developed intuitive user interfaces, customer tools on our payments platform, transaction processing, database and network applications that help our customers to utilize our suite of products and services. our payments platform, open application programming interfaces, and developer tools are designed to enable developers to innovate with ease and to offer robust applications to a global ecosystem of merchants and consumers, while at the same time maintaining the security of our customers' financial information. the technology infrastructure supporting our payments platform simplifies the storage and processing of large amounts of data, eases the deployment and operation of large-scale global products and services, and automates much of the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. our technology infrastructure has been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences. our payments platform incorporates multiple layers of protection, both for continuity and system redundancy purposes and to help address cyber-security challenges. we engage in multiple efforts to protect our technology infrastructure and payments platform against these challenges, including regularly testing our systems to address potential vulnerabilities. we strive to continually improve our technology infrastructure and payments platform to enhance the customer experience and to increase efficiency, scalability, and security. consumer and merchant payment solutions our combined payment solution capabilities were built to offer our customers, both consumers and merchants, a broad range of products and services in the digital and mobile age, allowing our consumers to make seamless transactions across different markets and networks while enabling our merchants to safely and simply receive payments from their customers. we partner with our merchants to help grow and expand their businesses by improving sales conversion, providing global reach, offering alternative payment methods, reducing losses through proprietary protection programs, and leveraging data analytics. online and mobile merchants can onboard quickly with paypal and are not required to invest in new or specialized hardware. for our standard service, we do not charge merchants setup or recurring fees. we offer credit products to certain small and medium-sized merchants through our paypal working capital ( ppwc ) product which, for a fee, allows them to borrow a certain percentage of their annual payment volume processed by paypal. we believe that our ppwc product allows us to deepen our engagement with our small and medium-sized business merchants by providing them capital to grow their business that they may not otherwise have effective or efficient access to from banks or other lending providers. paypal is a popular form of payment for mobile commerce, and our business has grown with the increased adoption of mobile devices. our braintree products strengthen our position in mobile payments and extend our coverage to a new class of retailers that offer their services primarily through mobile applications. through a single braintree integration, a merchant can begin 7 table of contents accepting payments with credit or debit cards, paypal, android pay, apple pay, digital currencies such as bitcoin, or other payment solutions. we also offer gateway services including our payflow gateway services and braintree gateway service that enable merchants to accept payments online with credit or debit cards. our gateway services provide the payment gateway technology that links a merchant's website to its processing network and merchant account. we focus on providing affordable consumer products intended to democratize access to and movement of money. we offer our customers the flexibility to use their account to both purchase and be paid for goods, as well as transfer and withdraw funds. we enable consumers to more safely exchange funds with merchants using a variety of financial resources, which may include a bank account, a paypal account balance, a paypal credit account, a credit or debit card or other stored value products such as coupons and gift cards. we generally do not charge consumers to fund or draw from their accounts; however, we generate revenue from consumers on fees charged to exchange currencies and on interest and fees from our paypal credit products. we offer our paypal credit product to consumers as a potential funding source at checkout. once a consumer is approved for credit, paypal credit is made easily available as a funding source in their account. we believe that our consumer credit products allow us to increase engagement with both consumers and merchants on our two-sided network as well as differentiate ourselves from rival payment processors by helping merchants drive incremental sales through products like paypal credit. we are responsible for all servicing functions related to all of our credit products. in the u.s., all credit originated through our paypal credit and ppwc products is currently extended through third-party financial institutions with whom we partner, and from whom we purchase the related receivables. for our consumer credit products outside the u.s., we extend credit through our luxembourg banking subsidiary. for our merchant credit products outside the u.s., we extend working capital advances in the u.k. through our luxembourg banking subsidiary, and we extend working capital advances in australia through an australian subsidiary. we continue to evaluate partnerships and third-party sources of funding of our credit portfolio, including, but not limited to, commercial banks, securitization markets, private equity firms and sovereign wealth funds. we offer consumers person-to-person ( p2p ) payment solutions through our paypal website and mobile application, venmo and xoom. our venmo app in the u.s. is a leading mobile application used to move money between friends and family with their mobile device. xoom is an international money transfer service that enables our customers to send money to, pay bills for and send prepaid mobile phone reloads for family and friends around the world in a secure, fast and cost-effective way, using their mobile device or personal computers. p2p is a significant customer acquisition channel with network effects that help to establish relationships with potential paypal users by allowing them to join our payments platform at the time of making or receiving payments, which drives organic customer-driven growth. protecting merchants and consumers protecting merchants and consumers on our payments platform from financial and data loss is imperative to successfully competing in the payments industry and growing our business sustainably. the risk to merchants and consumers (and their payments partners) from fraudulent activities, such as account takeover, identity theft and counterparty malicious activities, is growing. we provide merchants and consumers with protection programs on most purchase transactions completed through our payments platform, except for transactions using our gateway and paydiant products. we believe that these programs, which protect both merchants and consumers from financial and data loss primarily due to fraud and counterparty non-performance, are generally much broader than similar protections provided by other participants in the payments industry. many payments providers do not offer merchant protection in general, and those that do so generally do not provide protection for online or card not present transactions. as a result, merchants may incur losses for chargebacks and other claims on certain transactions when using other payments providers that they would not incur if they used our payments services. we also provide consumer protection against losses on qualifying purchases and accept claims for 180 days post transaction in the markets that we serve. we believe that this protection is generally consistent with, or better than, that offered by other payments providers. we believe that as a result of these programs, consumers can be confident that they will only be required to pay if they receive the product in the condition as described, and merchants can be confident that they will receive payment for the product that they are delivering to the customer. our ability to protect both consumers and merchants is based largely on our proprietary end-to-end payments platform, our ability to leverage the data we collect on both sides of the transactions, from buyers and sellers, or from senders and receivers of money, on our two-sided network. we believe mobile devices will play an important part in the future of commerce, including by creating the opportunities to make our ecosystem safer. for example, paypal is able to use location data from mobile devices and growing protection for the mobile operating environment to reduce risk to merchants and consumers. our ongoing investment in systems and processes designed to enhance the safety and security of our products reflects our goal of having paypal recognized as one of the world's most trusted payments brands. 8 table of contents competition the global payments industry is highly competitive. we compete against a wide range of businesses, including banks, credit card providers, technology and ecommerce companies and traditional retailers, many of which are larger than we are, have a dominant and secure position, or offer other products and services to consumers and merchants which we do not offer. we compete against all forms of payments, including credit and debit cards; automated clearing house and bank transfers; other online payment services; mobile payments; and offline payment methods, including cash and check. we compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain and engage both merchants and consumers with our two-sided platform; ability to show that merchants may achieve incremental sales by offering our end-to-end services; consumer confidence in safety and security of transactions on our payments platform, including the ability for consumers to use our products and services without sharing their financial information with the merchant or the party they are paying; simplicity of our fee structure; ability to develop products and services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments and payments at the retail point of sale; trust in our dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service; brand recognition; website, mobile platform and application onboarding, ease-of-use and accessibility; the technology- and payment-agnostic nature of our payments platform; system reliability and data security; ease and quality of integration into third-party mobile applications and operating systems; and quality of developer tools such as our application programming interfaces and software development kits. in addition to the discussion in this section, see item 1a. risk factors under the caption substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may harm our business for further discussion of the potential impact of competition on our business. research and development total research and development expense was $834 million , $792 million and $747 million in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. intellectual property the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the paypal name), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets is important to the success of our business. we protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. we also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. we have routinely entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business to control access to and limit disclosure of our proprietary information. we pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the u.s. and internationally. additionally, we have filed u.s. and international patent applications covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology. we have registered our core brands as trademarks and domain names in the u.s. and a large number of other jurisdictions and have in place an active program to continue to secure trademarks and domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of interest. for additional information regarding some of the risks relating to our intellectual property, including costs of protecting our intellectual property, see the information in item 1a. risk factors under the captions we are subject to patent litigation and 9 table of contents we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. government regulation we operate globally and in a rapidly evolving regulatory environment characterized by a heightened regulatory focus on all aspects of the payments industry. that focus continues to become even more heightened as regulators on a global basis focus on such important issues as countering terrorist financing, anti-money laundering, privacy and consumer protection. some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject were enacted recently and the laws and regulations applicable to us, including those enacted prior to the advent of digital and mobile payments, are continuing to evolve through legislative and regulatory action and judicial interpretation. non-compliance with laws and regulations, increased penalties and enforcement actions related to non-compliance, changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, and the enactment of new laws and regulations applicable to us could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. therefore, we monitor these areas closely to design compliant solutions for our customers who depend on us. government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the markets we operate. payments regulation. various laws and regulations govern the payments industry in the u.s. and globally. in the u.s., paypal, inc. holds licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent), which, among other things, subjects paypal, inc. to reporting requirements, bonding requirements, limitations on the investment of customer funds and inspection by state regulatory agencies. outside the u.s., we provide localized versions of our service to customers through various foreign subsidiaries. the activities of those non-u.s. entities are, or may, be supervised by a financial regulatory authority in the jurisdictions in which they operate. among other regulatory authorities, the luxembourg commission de surveillance du secteur financier (the cssf ), the australian securities and investment commission, the monetary authority of singapore, the reserve bank of india, and the central bank of russia have asserted jurisdiction over some or all of our activities in country. this list is not exhaustive, as there are numerous other regulatory agencies that have or may assert jurisdiction over our activities. the laws and regulations applicable to the payments industry in any given jurisdiction are subject to interpretation and change. banking agency supervision . we serve our customers in the european union through paypal (europe) s. .r.l. et cie, sca, a wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in luxembourg by the cssf. consequently, we must comply with rules and regulations of the banking industry, including those related to capitalization, funds management, corporate governance, anti-money laundering, disclosure, reporting and inspection. we also are, or may be, subject to banking-related regulations in other countries now or in the future related to our role in the financial industry. in addition, based on our relationships with our partner financial institutions in the u.s., we are subject to indirect regulation and examination by these financial institutions' regulators. consumer financial protection bureau . the consumer financial protection bureau (the cfpb ) has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products in the united states, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products. as a large market participant of remittance transfers, the cfpb has direct supervisory authority over our business. the cfpb and other similar regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions may have broad consumer protection mandates that could result in the promulgation and interpretation of rules and regulations that may affect our business. anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing. paypal is subject to anti-money laundering ( aml ) laws and regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions, as well as laws designed to prevent the use of the financial systems to facilitate terrorist activities. we have implemented a comprehensive aml program designed to prevent our payment network from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit activities, or to do business in countries or with persons and entities included on designated country or person lists promulgated by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets controls ( ofac ) and equivalent authorities in other countries. our aml compliance program, overseen by our compliance officer, is composed of policies, procedures and internal controls, and is designed to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks. interchange fees. interchange fees associated with four-party payments systems are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions. for example, in the european union, the multilateral interchange fee ( mif ) regulation (which became effective in december 2015) caps credit and debit interchange fees for cards payments and provides for business rules to be complied with by any company dealing with card transactions, including paypal. as a result, the fees that we collect in certain jurisdictions may become the subject of regulatory challenge. 10 table of contents data protection and information security. aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy and data protection regulation in the united states, the european union and elsewhere. for example, in the united states, we are subject to information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act that require the maintenance of a written, comprehensive information security program and in europe, the operations of our luxembourg bank are subject to information safeguarding requirements under the luxembourg banking act, among other laws. regulatory authorities around the world are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy and data protection. in addition, the interpretation and application of these privacy and data protection laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in a state of flux. anti-corruption. paypal is subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, and similar anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to provide anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. we have implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with these laws and regulations. additional regulatory developments. various regulatory agencies continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including virtual currencies, identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that may impact paypal's business. for an additional discussion on governmental regulation affecting our business, please see the risk factors related to regulation of our payments business and regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security in item 1a. risk factors under the caption risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and item 3. legal proceedings included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. seasonality the company does not experience meaningful seasonality with respect to net revenues. no individual quarter in 2016 , 2015 or 2014 accounted for more than 30% of annual net revenue. financial information about segments we operate in one business segment and have one reportable segment. see note 11 segment and geographical information to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information including certain financial information about our operations in the u.s. and abroad. additionally, please see the information in item 1a. risk factors under the caption our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business, which describes risks associated with our foreign operations. employees as of december 31, 2016, we employed approximately 18,100 people globally, of whom approximately 10,180 were located in the u.s. we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. separation from ebay inc. paypal holdings, inc. was incorporated in delaware in january 2015 for the purpose of owning and operating ebay's payments business in connection with the separation and distribution described below. prior to the contribution of this business to paypal holdings, inc., which occurred prior to the distribution in july 2015, paypal holdings, inc. had no operations. on july 17, 2015 (the distribution date ), paypal became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by ebay of 100% of the outstanding common stock of paypal to ebay stockholders (which we refer to as the separation or the distribution ). each ebay stockholder of record as of the close of business on july 8, 2015 received one share of paypal common stock for every share of ebay common stock held on the record date. approximately 1.2 billion shares of paypal common stock were distributed on july 17, 2015 to ebay stockholders. paypal's common stock began regular way trading under the ticker symbol pypl on the nasdaq stock market on july 20, 2015. prior to the separation, ebay transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities and operations of ebay's payments business to paypal, which was completed in june 2015. 11 table of contents available information the address of our principal executive offices is paypal holdings, inc., 2211 north first street, san jose, california 95131. our website is located at www.paypal.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investor.paypal-corp.com. from time to time, we may use our investor relations site and other online and social media channels, including our paypal stories blog (https://www.paypal.com/stories/us), twitter handle (@paypal), linkedin page (https://www.linkedin.com/company/paypal), facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/paypalusa/) and youtube channel ( https://www.youtube.com/paypal ) to disclose material non-public information and comply with our disclosure obligations under regulation fd. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. the content of our websites and information that we may post on or provide to online and social media channels, including those mentioned above, and information that can be accessed through our websites or these online and social media channels is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k or in any other report or document we file with the sec, and any references to our websites or these online and social media channels are intended to be inactive textual references only. item 1a. risk factors the following discussion is divided into three sections. the first section, which begins immediately following this paragraph, discusses some of the risks that may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the second section, captioned risks related to the separation and our operation as an independent publicly traded company, discusses some of the risks relating to our separation into an independent publicly traded company. the third section, captioned risks related to our common stock, discusses some of the risks relating to an investment in our common stock. you should carefully review all of these sections for important information regarding risks and uncertainties that affect us, in addition to the other information appearing in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may harm our business. the global payments industry is highly competitive, and we compete against a wide range of businesses, many of which are larger than we are, have a dominant and secure position, or offer other products and services to consumers and merchants which we do not offer. as online and offline commerce are increasingly converging, the pace of change, innovation and disruption is also increasing. the global payments industry is rapidly changing, highly innovative and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny, which may negatively affect the competitive landscape. many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. competition may also intensify as businesses against which we compete or merchants enter into business combinations and alliances, and established companies in other market segments expand to become competitive with our business. we compete against a wide range of businesses with varying roles in all forms of payments, including: paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks); providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit and debit cards, and automated clearing house transactions (in particular, well-established banks); payment networks which facilitate payments for credit card users; providers of digital wallets which offer customers the ability to pay online and/or on mobile devices through a variety of payment methods, including with mobile applications, through contactless payments, and with a variety of payment cards; providers of mobile payments solutions that use tokenized card data approaches and contactless payments (e.g., near field communication functionality or host card emulation functionality) to eliminate the need to swipe or insert a card or enter a personal identification number or password; payment-card processors that offer their services to merchants, including for card on file payments where the merchant invites the consumer to select a payment method for their first transaction, and subsequently uses the same payment method for subsequent transactions; 12 table of contents providers of person-to-person payments that facilitate individuals sending money with an email address or mobile phone number; merchants and merchant associations providing proprietary payment networks to facilitate payments within their own retail network; money remitters; providers of card readers for mobile devices and of other point-of-sale and multi-channel technologies; and providers of virtual currencies and distributed ledger technologies. we often partner with many of these businesses and we consider the ability to continue establishing these partnerships as important to our business. competition for relationships with these partners is very intense and there can be no assurance we will be able to continue to establish, grow or maintain these partner relationships. we also face competition and potential competition from: services that provide online merchants the ability to offer their customers the option of paying for purchases from their bank account or paying on credit; issuers of stored value targeted at online payments; other global online payment-services providers; other providers of online account-based payments; payment services targeting users of social networks and online gaming, including those offering billing to the consumer's mobile phone account; mobile payment services between bank accounts; payment services enabling banks to offer their online banking customers the ability to send and receive payments through their bank account; ecommerce services that provide special offers linked to a specific payment provider; services that help merchants accept and manage virtual currencies; and electronic funds transfer services as a method of payment for both online and offline transactions, particularly in germany and the netherlands. some of these competitors have greater customer bases, volume, scale, resources, and market share than we do, which may provide significant competitive advantages. some of our competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, and other regulatory requirements. they may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services, and they may offer lower prices or more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth. we compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain and engage both merchants and consumers; ability to show that merchants will achieve incremental sales by offering our paypal services; consumer confidence in safety and security of transactions on our payments platform, including the ability for consumers to use our paypal products and services without sharing their financial information with the merchant or the party they are paying; simplicity of our fee structure; ability to develop services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments and payments at the retail point of sale; trust in our dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service; brand recognition; website, mobile platform and application onboarding, ease-of-use and accessibility; the technology- and payment-agnostic nature of our payments platform; system reliability and data security; ease and quality of integration into third-party mobile applications and operating systems; and quality of developer tools, such as our application programming interfaces and software development kits. if we are not able to differentiate our business from those of our competitors, drive value for our customers, or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against our competitors. our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely harm our business. 13 table of contents substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come primarily from transactions involving payments during that quarter, which may result in significant fluctuations in our operating results that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock. substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come primarily from transactions involving payments during that quarter. as a result, our operating and financial results have varied on a quarterly basis during our limited operating history and may continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including as a result of the risks set forth in this risk factors section. it is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings (loss) accurately. in view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast expenses as a percentage of net revenues. quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of net revenues reflected in our financial statements may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. the trading price of our common stock could decline, perhaps substantially, as a result of the factors described in this paragraph. global and regional economic conditions could harm our business. our operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions. adverse economic conditions and events have negatively impacted global and regional financial markets in the past, and uncertainty about global and regional economic events and conditions may result in consumers and businesses postponing spending in response to tighter credit, higher unemployment, financial market volatility, government austerity programs, negative financial news, declines in income or asset values, and other factors. these and other global and regional economic events and conditions could have a material adverse impact on demand for our products and services, including a reduction in the volume and size of transactions on our payments platform. in addition, any financial turmoil affecting the banking system or financial markets could cause additional consolidation of the financial services industry, significant financial service institution failures, new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility or distress in the fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. if we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative products and services, the use of our products and services and, consequently, our revenues could decline. rapid, significant, and disruptive technological changes continue to impact the industries in which we operate, including developments in payment card tokenization, mobile, social commerce (i.e., ecommerce through social networks), authentication, virtual currencies, distributed ledger technologies, near field communication and other proximity payment devices, such as contactless payments. we cannot predict the effects of technological changes on our business. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge and may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. developing and incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures, take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. in addition, our ability to adopt new products and services and develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, payments networks, changes to laws and regulations, resistance to change from consumers or merchants, third-party intellectual property rights, or other factors. our success will depend on our ability to develop and incorporate new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards; if we are unable to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. changes in how consumers fund their paypal transactions could harm our business. we pay significant transaction fees when consumers fund payment transactions using credit cards, lower fees when consumers fund payments with debit cards, nominal fees when consumers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, and nominal fees when consumers fund payment transactions from an existing paypal account balance or through our paypal credit products. our financial success is sensitive to changes in the rate at which our consumers fund payments using credit and debit cards (collectively, payment cards ), which can significantly increase our costs. while we provide consumers with the opportunity to use their existing paypal account balance to fund payment transactions, some of our consumers may prefer to use payment cards, especially if these payment cards offer functionality and benefits not associated with the use of their bank accounts. some of our offerings, including the ability of consumers to make a limited number of guest payments without opening a paypal account, have a higher rate of payment card funding than our basic product offering. an increase in the portion of our payment volume funded using payment cards or in fees associated with our funding mix, or other events or developments that make it more difficult or costly for us to fund transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts or existing paypal account balances, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business. some of 14 table of contents our plans to lower our funding costs, including our paypal credit products and enabling consumers to defer payment for a short period of time on some transactions, may increase the risk to us of nonpayment by consumers. negotiated arrangements with payment card networks and/or issuing banks, promoting greater choice and options for consumers to fund payment transactions could have an uncertain impact on our business. we have entered into a strategic partnership with partners such as visa u.s.a. inc. ( visa ), mastercard international incorporated ( mastercard ) and dfs services llc ( discover ) to make it easier for merchants to accept and consumers to pay with these partners' credit and/or debt cards and allow us to gain access to these partners tokenization services for in-store point of sale paypal transactions. while we anticipate these and similar strategic partnerships we may enter in the future will result in an increase in the number of transactions and transaction volume that we process, we also anticipate that a greater percentage of customer transactions will be executed using a credit or debit card, which would likely increase our funding costs. if our transaction volume does not increase as expected, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected due to increased costs associated with our funding mix. our business is subject to cyberattacks and security and privacy breaches. our business involves the collection, storage, processing and transmission of customers' personal data, including financial information. in addition, a significant number of our customers authorize us to bill their payment card or bank accounts directly for all transaction and other fees charged by us. we have built our reputation on the premise that our payments platform offers customers a secure way to make payments. an increasing number of organizations, including large merchants and businesses, other large technology companies, financial institutions, and government institutions, have disclosed breaches of their information security systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks, including on portions of their websites or infrastructure. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized, improper or illegal access to our systems, our data or customers' data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly evolving, may be difficult to detect quickly, and often are not recognized until launched against a target. unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including, among others, hacking into our systems or facilities or those of our customers, partners or vendors, or attempting to fraudulently induce our employees, customers, partners, vendors or other users of our systems into disclosing user names, passwords, payment card information, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. certain efforts may be state-sponsored and supported by significant financial and technological resources, making them even more sophisticated and difficult to detect. we believe that paypal is a particularly attractive target for such breaches and attacks due to our name and brand recognition and the widespread adoption and use of our products and services. although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect our data and customer data and to prevent data loss and other security breaches, and expect to continue to expend significant additional resources to bolster these protections, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security breaches, and third parties may be able to access our customers' personal or proprietary information and payment card data that are stored on or accessible through those systems. our security measures may also be breached due to human error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, or other irregularities. any actual or perceived breach of our security could interrupt our operations, result in our systems or services being unavailable, result in improper disclosure of data, materially harm our reputation and brands, result in significant legal and financial exposure, lead to loss of customer confidence in, or decreased use of, our products and services, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. in addition, any breaches of network or data security at our customers, partners or vendors (including data center and cloud computing providers) could have similar negative effects. actual or perceived vulnerabilities or data breaches may lead to claims against us. in addition, under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, or that is stored by our direct payment card processing customers, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. we also expect to expend significant additional resources to protect against security or privacy breaches, and may be required to redress problems caused by breaches. among other reasons, financial services regulators in various jurisdictions, including the u.s. and the european union ( eu ), have implemented or are considering proposals to impose new authentication requirements on banks and payment processors intended to reduce online fraud, which could impose significant costs, require us to change our business practices, make it more difficult for new customers to join paypal, and reduce the ease of use of our products, which could harm our business. additionally, while we maintain insurance policies, they may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches, and we may not be able to collect fully, if at all, under these insurance policies. 15 table of contents systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business. our systems and those of our services providers and partners may experience service interruptions or degradation because of hardware and software defects or malfunctions, computer denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. our systems also may be subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. in addition, as a provider of payments solutions, we are subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators that may require specific business continuity, resiliency and disaster recovery plans and more rigorous testing of such plans, which may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our resources from other business priorities. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience system failures, denial of service attacks and other events or conditions from time to time that interrupt the availability or reduce or affect the speed or functionality of our products and services. these events have resulted and likely will result in loss of revenue. a prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the availability, speed or other functionality of our products and services could materially harm our business. frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential customers to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our products and services, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. moreover, to the extent that any system failure or similar event results in damages to our customers or their business partners, these customers or partners could seek significant compensation or contractual penalties from us for their losses and those claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address, and could have other consequences described in this risk factors section under the caption our business is subject to cyberattacks and security and privacy breaches. our payments platform has experienced significant intermittent unavailability. reliability is particularly critical for us because the full-time availability of our products and services is critical to our goal of gaining widespread acceptance among consumers and merchants for digital payments. we have undertaken certain system upgrades and re-platforming efforts designed to improve our reliability and speed. these efforts are costly and time-consuming, involve significant technical risk and may divert our resources from new features and products, and there can be no guarantee that these efforts will succeed. because we are a regulated financial institution in certain jurisdictions, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to regulatory scrutiny, significant fines and penalties, and mandatory and costly changes to our business practices, and ultimately could cause us to lose existing licenses that we need to operate or prevent or delay us from obtaining additional licenses that we need to expand our business. we also rely on facilities, components and services supplied by third parties, including data center facilities and cloud storage services. if these third parties cease to provide the facilities, components or services, experience operational interference or disruptions, breach their agreements with us, or fail to meet our expectations, our operations could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and brands, and materially and adversely affect our business. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for all losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm our business. we do not directly access the payment card networks, such as visa and mastercard, that enable our acceptance of credit cards and debit cards, including some types of prepaid cards. accordingly, we must rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions and must pay fees for the services. from time to time, payment card networks have increased, and may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction which accesses their networks. payment card networks have or may impose special assessments for transactions that are executed through a digital wallet such as paypal's, and such fees could particularly impact us and significantly increase our costs. our payment card processors may have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to us as well as increase their own fees for processing. any changes in interchange fees and assessments could increase our operating costs and reduce our operating income. we have entered into strategic partnerships with visa and mastercard to further expand our relationships with these networks in a way that will make it easier for merchants to accept and consumers to choose to pay with visa and mastercard credit and debit cards. during the term of the agreements, visa and mastercard have each agreed to not enact or impose any fees or rules solely targeted at paypal. upon termination of the agreements, paypal could become subject to special digital wallet fees or other special assessments. in addition, in some jurisdictions, governments have required visa and mastercard to reduce interchange fees, or have opened investigations as to whether visa's or mastercard's interchange fees and practices violate antitrust law. in the u.s., the federal reserve board issued a final rule capping debit card interchange fees at significantly lower rates than visa or mastercard previously charged. in the eu, the multilateral interchange fee regulation limits credit and debit interchange fees for payments and imposes business rules on card processing services. any material change in credit or debit card interchange rates in the u.s. or other markets, 16 table of contents including as a result of changes in interchange fee limitations, could adversely affect our competitive position against traditional credit and debit card service providers. future changes to those regulations could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. we are required by our processors to comply with payment card network operating rules, including special operating rules for payment service providers to merchants, and we have agreed to reimburse our processors for any fines they are assessed by payment card networks as a result of any rule violations by us or our merchants. the payment card networks set and interpret the card operating rules. from time to time, the networks have alleged that various aspects of our business model violate these operating rules. if such allegations are not resolved favorably, they may result in material fines and penalties or require changes in our business practices that may be costly. the payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or re-interpret existing rules that we or our processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or costly to implement. as a result, we could lose our ability to give consumers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or the choice of currency in which they would like their payment card to be charged. if we are unable to accept payment cards or are meaningfully limited in our ability to do so, our business would be adversely affected. we and our payment card processors have implemented specific business processes for merchants to comply with payment card network operating rules for providing services to merchants. any failure to comply with these rules could result in fines. we are also subject to fines from payment card networks if we fail to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or that are considered high risk, primarily the sale of certain types of digital content. for high risk merchants, we must either prevent such merchants from using our paypal services or register such merchants with the payment card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. although the amount of these fines has not been material to date, additional fines in the future could become material and could result in a termination of our ability to accept payment cards or require changes in our process for registering new customers, which would materially harm our business. payment card network rules may also increase the cost of, impose restrictions on, or otherwise negatively impact the development of, our retail point-of-sale solutions, which may negatively impact their deployment and adoption. failure to deal effectively with fraud, fictitious transactions, bad transactions, and negative customer experiences would increase our loss rate and harm our business, and could severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services. we incur substantial losses due to claims from consumers that merchants have not performed or that their goods or services do not match the merchant's description. we seek to recover such losses from the merchant, but may not be able to recover in full if the merchant is unwilling or unable to pay. in addition, in the event of the bankruptcy or other business interruption of a merchant that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (e.g., airline, cruise or concert tickets, custom-made goods and subscriptions), we could be liable to the buyers of such goods or services, either through our buyer protection program or through chargebacks on payment cards used by customers to fund their payment. while we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may be insufficient. we also incur substantial losses from claims that the consumer did not authorize the purchase, from consumer fraud, from erroneous transmissions and from customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments. in addition, if losses incurred by us related to payment card transactions become excessive, they could potentially result in our losing the right to accept payment cards for payment, which would harm our business. we have taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. if these measures do not succeed, our business could be harmed. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, australian dollar and canadian dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency risk. the strengthening or weakening of the u.s. dollar versus the british pound, euro, australian dollar, and canadian dollar impacts the translation of our net revenues generated in these foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. additionally, in connection with providing our services in multiple currencies, we generally set our foreign exchange rates twice per day. we may face financial exposure if we incorrectly set our foreign exchange rates or as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the times that we set them. given that we also hold some corporate and customer funds in non-u.s. currencies, our financial results are affected by the translation of these non-u.s. currencies into u.s. dollars. we also have foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. while we regularly enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation and balance sheet exposure, it is impossible to predict or eliminate the effects of this exposure. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could significantly impact our financial results. 17 table of contents any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business. cross-border trade (i.e., transactions where the merchant or consumer are in different countries) is an important source of our revenue and profits. cross-border transactions generally provide higher revenues and operating income than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. cross-border trade also represents our primary (and in some cases, our only) presence in certain important markets. cross-border trade is subject to, and may be impacted by, foreign exchange rate fluctuations. in addition, the potential interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the merchant and of the consumer) are often extremely complicated in the context of cross-border trade. changes to or the interpretation and/or application of laws applicable to cross-border trade could impose additional requirements (which may impose conflicting obligations) and restrictions on cross-border trade and increase the costs associated with cross-border trade. any factors that increase the costs of cross-border trade or restrict, delay, or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical would lower our revenues and profits and could harm our business. the united kingdom's departure from the eu could adversely affect us. the united kingdom ( u.k. ) held a referendum on june 23, 2016 in which a majority of voters approved an exit from the eu ( brexit ). negotiations are expected to commence to determine the future terms of the u.k.'s relationship with the eu, including, among other things, the terms of trade between the u.k. and the eu. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. reaches to retain access to eu markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. the outcome of this referendum caused volatility in global stock markets and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and uncertainty about the terms and impact of brexit may continue to do so in the future. brexit could adversely affect u.k., regional (including european) and worldwide economic and market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the british pound and euro, which in turn could adversely affect our customers and companies with which we do business, particularly in the u.k. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which eu laws to replace or replicate. in particular, depending on the terms of brexit, we may face new regulatory costs and challenges, including the following: we could lose our ability for our eu operations to passport into the u.k. market through the banking license of paypal (europe) s. r.l. et cie, sca ( paypal (europe) ), our wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in luxembourg, and our corresponding ability to work with luxembourg regulators as the lead authority for various aspects of our u.k. operations; we could be required to obtain additional regulatory licensing to operate in the u.k. market, adding costs and potential inconsistency to our business; and we could also be required to comply with regulatory requirements in the u.k. that are in addition to, or inconsistent with, the regulatory requirements of the eu. any of these effects of brexit and others we cannot anticipate could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight, as well as extensive, complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations. our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. for a discussion of how government regulation impacts key aspects of our business, please see item 1. business government regulation in this annual report on form 10-k. our business is also subject to laws, rules, regulations, policies and legal interpretations in the markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, those governing banking, credit, deposit taking, cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange, privacy, data protection, banking secrecy, payment services (including payment processing and settlement services), consumer protection, economic and trade sanctions, anti-money laundering, and counter-terrorist financing. the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to us are extensive, complex, frequently changing, and increasing in number, and may impose overlapping and/or conflicting requirements or obligations. financial and political events have increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on the payments industry, and regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our business. our success and increased visibility may result in increased regulatory oversight and tighter enforcement of rules and regulations that may apply to our business. as we expand and localize our international activities, we are increasingly becoming obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. in addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of 18 table of contents goods and provide services to customers worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our customers are required to comply with their laws. laws regulating the internet, mobile and related technologies outside of the u.s. often impose different, more specific, or even conflicting obligations on us, as well as broader liability. for example, certain transactions that may be permissible in a local jurisdiction may be prohibited by regulations of u.s. department of treasury's office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) or u.s. anti-money laundering or counter-terrorist financing regulations. any failure or perceived failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations (including changes to or expansion of the interpretation of those laws and regulations), including those discussed in this risk factor, may subject us to significant fines, penalties, criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, and other enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions; result in additional compliance and licensure requirements; increase regulatory scrutiny of our business; restrict our operations; force us to change our business practices, make product or operational changes or delay planned product launches or improvements. the foregoing could, individually or in the aggregate, expose us to significant liability, impose significant costs, require us to expend substantial resources, increase the cost and complexity of compliance, damage our brands and business, make our products and services less attractive, result in the loss of customers, limit our ability to grow the business, adversely affect our results of operations, and harm our reputation. the complexity of u.s. federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes, coupled with the global scope of our operations and the evolving global regulatory environment, could result in a single event giving rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and legal and regulatory proceedings by multiple government authorities in different jurisdictions. we have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws, and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations. payments regulation in the u.s., paypal, inc. has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent) in the states where it is required, as well as in the district of columbia, the u.s. virgin islands and puerto rico. these licenses include not only the paypal branded products and services in these states, but also our venmo and xoom branded products and services. as a licensed money transmitter, paypal is subject to restrictions with respect to the investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements and inspection by state regulatory agencies. accordingly, if we violate these laws or regulations, we could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change our business practices or be required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose substantial costs. while we currently allow our customers with credit cards to send payments from approximately 200 markets, we allow customers in only approximately half of those markets (including the u.s.) to also receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can withdraw funds. these limitations may affect our ability to grow our business in these markets. of the markets whose residents can use our paypal services, almost 30 of them are in member states of the eu. we provide our services to customers in the eu through paypal (europe), our wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in luxembourg. accordingly, paypal (europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money-laundering, capitalization, fund management, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, information security, banking secrecy, taxation, sanctions, or other requirements imposed on luxembourg banks. in addition, eu laws and regulations are typically subject to different and potentially inconsistent interpretations by the countries that are members of the eu, which can make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. moreover, the countries that are members of the eu may each have different and potentially inconsistent interpretations of regulations implementing the eu payment services directive and the e-money directive, which could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. the revised payment services directive ( psd2 ) entered into force in january 2016 and will need to be implemented into national legislation by january 2018. the implementation of the psd2 may negatively affect our business. finally, if paypal (europe) exceed certain thresholds, or if the european central bank ( ecb ) determines that paypal (europe) is a significant supervised entity or that some activity of paypal (europe) is subject to oversight by the ecb, paypal (europe) or certain of its activities could become directly regulated by the ecb in addition to the luxembourg regulator, the commission de surveillance du secteur financier, as its national supervisor, which could subject us to additional requirements and would likely increase compliance costs. in australia, we serve our customers through paypal australia pty. ltd. ( paypal australia ), which is licensed by the australian securities and investments commission as a provider of a non-cash payment product and by the australian prudential regulation authority as a purchased payment facility provider, which is a type of authorized depository institution. accordingly, paypal australia is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the product disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capital requirements, privacy, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on australian depository institutions. 19 table of contents in many of the other markets in which we do business, we serve our customers through paypal pte. ltd., our wholly-owned subsidiary that is based in singapore. paypal pte. ltd. is supervised by the monetary authority of singapore and is designated as a holder of a stored value facility and does not hold a remittance license. as a result, paypal pte. ltd. is not able to offer outbound remittance payments (including donations to charities) from singapore, and can only offer payments for the purchase of goods and services in singapore. in many of the markets (other than singapore) served by paypal pte. ltd., it is unclear and uncertain whether our singapore-based service is subject only to singapore law or, if it is subject to the application of local laws, whether such local laws would require a payment processor like us to be licensed as a payments service, bank, financial institution or otherwise. we are also subject to regulation in other markets in which we do business and we have been and expect to continue to be required to apply for various licenses, certifications and regulatory approvals in a number of the countries where we provide our services. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such licenses, certifications, and approvals. even if we were able to obtain such licenses, certifications, and approvals, there are substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining such licenses, certifications, and approvals, and we could be subject to fines or other enforcement action if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance or other requirements of such licenses. these factors could impose substantial additional costs and involve considerable delay to the development or provision of our products or services, or could require significant and costly operational changes or prevent us from providing any products or services in a given market. in many other countries it may not be clear whether we are required to be licensed as a payment services provider, bank, financial institution or otherwise. in such markets, we may rely on local banks to process payments and conduct foreign exchange transactions in local currency. local regulators may use their power to slow or halt payments to local merchants conducted through local banks or otherwise prohibit us from doing business in a country. such regulatory actions or the need to obtain licenses, certifications or other regulatory approvals could impose substantial costs, involve considerable delay to the provision or development of our services, require significant and costly operational changes, impose restrictions, limitations, or additional requirements on our business, or prevent us from providing any products or services in a given market. for example, in june 2016, we suspended our operations in turkey following cease and desist instructions from turkey's regulatory body, bankac l k d zenleme ve denetleme kurumu ( bddk ), following the bddk's rejection of our application for an e-money payments license. consumer protection the financial services sector is subject to significant regulation and we are subject to consumer protection laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. in the u.s., we are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations applicable to our activities, including the electronic fund transfer act ( efta ) and regulation e as implemented by the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ). under such regulations we are required to provide advance disclosure of changes to our services, follow specified error resolution procedures, and reimburse consumers for losses from certain transactions not authorized by the consumer, among other requirements. additionally, technical violations of consumer protection laws could result in the assessment of actual damages or statutory damages or penalties of up to $1,000 in individual cases or up to $500,000 per violation in any class action and treble damages in some instances; we could also be liable for plaintiffs' attorneys' fees in such cases. we are subject to, and have paid amounts in settlement of, lawsuits containing allegations that our business violated the efta and regulation e or otherwise advance claims for relief relating to our business practices (e.g., that we improperly held consumer funds or otherwise improperly limited consumer accounts). in october 2016, the cfpb issued a final rule on prepaid accounts with an effective date of october 1, 2017. the rule's definition of prepaid account includes certain loadable accounts whose primary function is to conduct transactions with multiple, unaffiliated merchants, at atms and/or for person-to-person transfers, including certain digital wallets. the rule's requirements include: the disclosure of fees and other information to the consumer prior to the creation of a prepaid account; the extension of regulation e liability limits and error-resolution requirements to all prepaid accounts; the application of credit card accountability responsibility and disclosure act of 2009 credit card requirements to prepaid accounts with overdraft and credit features; and the submission of prepaid account agreements to the cfpb and their publication to the general public. we are evaluating the rule and its requirements. implementation of the rule could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices and the design of certain products, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business. in may 2015, we entered into a stipulated final judgment and consent order ( consent order ) with the cfpb in which we settled regulatory claims arising from paypal credit practices between 2011 and 2015. the consent order included obligations on paypal to pay $15 million in redress to consumers and a $10 million civil monetary penalty, and required paypal to make various changes to paypal credit disclosures and related business practices. we continue to cooperate and engage with the cfpb and work to ensure compliance with the consent order, which may result in us incurring additional costs. 20 table of contents paypal (europe) offers its services in eu countries through a passport notification process through the luxembourg regulator to regulators in other eu member states pursuant to eu directives, and has completed the passport notification process in all eu member countries. the regulators in these countries could notify paypal (europe) of local consumer protection laws that apply to its business, in addition to luxembourg consumer protection law, and could also seek to persuade the luxembourg regulator to order paypal (europe) to conduct its activities in the local country through a branch office. these or similar actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, our plans to expand our business in eu countries. economic and trade sanctions we are subject to u.s. economic and trade sanctions administered by ofac. we have self-reported to ofac certain transactions that were inadvertently processed but subsequently identified as possible violations of u.s. economic and trade sanctions. in march 2015, we reached a settlement with ofac regarding possible violations arising from our sanctions compliance practices between 2009 and 2013, prior to the implementation of our real-time transaction scanning program. subsequently, we have self-reported additional transactions as possible violations, and we have received new subpoenas from ofac seeking additional information about certain of these transactions. such self-reported transactions could result in claims or actions against us, including litigation, injunctions, damage awards, fines or penalties, or require us to change our business practices in a manner that could result in a material loss, require significant management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources or otherwise harm our business. anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing we are subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, our involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. u.s. and other regulators globally continue to increase their scrutiny of compliance with these obligations, which may require us to further revise or expand our compliance program, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of our customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. many countries in which we operate also have anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and we have been and continue to be required to make changes to our compliance program in various jurisdictions in response. regulators regularly re-examine the transaction volume thresholds at which we must obtain and keep applicable records or verify identities of customers and any change in such thresholds could result in greater costs for compliance. in the eu, the implementation of the fourth anti-money laundering directive and the regulation on information accompanying transfer of funds (commonly known as the revised wire transfer regulation), which both come into effect on june 26, 2017, could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage, lead to increased friction for customers, and result in a decrease in business. penalties for non-compliance with the fourth anti-money laundering directive could include fines of up to 10% of paypal (europe)'s total annual turnover. the eu institutions are also proposing changes to the fourth anti-money laundering directive which could be even more stringent. privacy and protection of user data we are subject to a number of laws, rules and directives (which we refer to as privacy laws ) relating to the collection, use, retention, security, processing and transfer (which we refer to as process ) of personally identifiable information about our customers and employees (which we refer to as personal data ) in the countries where we operate. much of the personal data that we process, especially financial information, is regulated by multiple privacy laws and, in some cases, the privacy laws of multiple jurisdictions. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between or among us, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relationships. regulatory scrutiny of privacy, data protection, collection, use and sharing of data is increasing on a global basis. there is uncertainty associated with the legal and regulatory environment around privacy and data protection laws, which continue to develop in ways we cannot predict, including with respect to evolving technologies such as cloud computing. privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and impose inconsistent or conflicting requirements. complying with varying jurisdictional requirements could increase the costs and complexity of compliance or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business, and violations of privacy and data protection-related laws can result in significant penalties and damage to our brand and business. in addition, compliance with inconsistent privacy laws may restrict our ability to provide products and services to our customers. a determination that there have been violations of privacy or data protection laws could expose us to significant damage awards, fines and other penalties that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business and reputation. in october 2015, the european court of justice ruled that the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework clauses, one compliance method by which companies could transfer personal data regarding citizens of the eu to the u.s., could no longer be relied upon. the u.s. and eu authorities have agreed in principle on a replacement for safe harbor known as privacy shield . the privacy shield 21 table of contents approach has not been fully endorsed by all relevant parties and there have already been challenges to this initiative in the european justice system. paypal has chosen to adopt eu model clauses published by the european commission as a basis for the export of data from the eu to the u.s. for those parts of our business that had previously relied on safe harbor. in addition, because paypal (europe) is headquartered in luxembourg and subject to regulation as a bank in that jurisdiction, we have relied on the one-stop-shop concept under which luxembourg has been our lead data protection regulator in the eu. however, a recent european court of justice ruling (weltimmo) affecting companies that do business in the eu potentially could make us subject to the local data protection laws or regulatory enforcement activities of the various eu member states in which we have established legal entities and which apply privacy laws that are different than, and which may even conflict with, those in luxembourg. in addition, because of the large number of text messages, emails, phone calls and other communications we send or make to our customers for various business purposes, communication-related privacy laws that provide a specified monetary damage award or fine for each violation could result in particularly significant damage awards or fines. for example, under the telephone consumer protection act ( tcpa ), in the u.s., plaintiffs may seek actual monetary loss or statutory damages of $500 per violation, whichever is greater, and courts may treble the damage award for willful or knowing violations. we have been, are, and may continue to be subject to lawsuits (including class-action lawsuits) containing allegations that our business violated the tcpa. these lawsuits seek damages (including statutory damages) and injunctive relief, among other remedies. given the large number of communications we send to our customers, a determination that there have been violations of the tcpa or other communications-based statutes could expose us to significant damage awards that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. the eu has recently adopted a comprehensive overhaul of its data protection regime from the current national legislative approach to a single european economic area privacy regulation, the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which comes into effect in 2018. the proposed eu data protection regime extends the scope of the eu data protection law to all foreign companies processing data of eu residents. it provides for a harmonization of the data protection regulations throughout the eu, thereby making it easier for non-european companies to comply with these regulations. it imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with severe penalties of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide turnover and 20 million and includes new rights such as the portability of personal data. although the gdpr will apply across the eu without a need for local implementing legislation, as has been the case under the current data protection regime, local data protection authorities ( dpas ) will still have the ability to interpret the gdpr, which has the potential to create inconsistencies on a country-by-country basis. we are evaluating the rule and its requirements. implementation of the gdpr could require changes to certain of our business practices, thereby increasing our costs. we post on our websites and applications our privacy policies and practices regarding the collection, use and disclosure of user data. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any applicable regulatory requirements or orders, or privacy, data protection, information security or consumer protection-related privacy laws and regulations in one or more jurisdictions could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, including class action privacy litigation in certain jurisdictions, subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase the costs and complexity of compliance, and adversely affect our business. data protection, privacy and information security have become the subject of increasing public, media and legislative concern. if our customers were to reduce their use of our products and services as a result of these concerns, our business could be materially harmed. as noted above, we are also subject to the possibility of security and privacy breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these privacy laws. if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their financial or performance obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the u.s. and abroad. as part of our currency hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments with various financial institutions. certain banks and financial institutions are also lenders under our revolving credit facility. we regularly monitor our exposure to counterparty credit risk, and actively manage this exposure to mitigate the associated risk. despite these efforts, we may be exposed to the risk of default by, or deteriorating operating results or financial condition or failure of, these counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default, deterioration or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to access or recover our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 22 table of contents paypal is not a bank or licensed lender in the u.s. and relies upon third parties to make loans and provide other products critical to our business. as paypal is neither a chartered financial institution nor licensed to make loans in any state in the u.s., we rely on a third-party chartered financial institution to issue the paypal credit consumer product in the u.s., and a different chartered financial institution to issue the paypal working capital product in the u.s. both of these chartered financial institutions are industrial banks chartered by the state of utah. in the event of a termination or interruption in the ability of the chartered financial institution that currently issues the paypal credit consumer product in the u.s. to lend under the paypal credit consumer product, the chartered financial institution that issues the paypal working capital product in the u.s. has agreed to take ownership of (and originate loans with respect to) all paypal credit consumer accounts. nevertheless, any termination or interruption of either bank's ability to lend could result in the inability or unwillingness to originate any new paypal credit or paypal working capital loans. in the event of either bank's inability or unwillingness to lend, we would either need to reach a similar agreement with another chartered financial institution or obtain our own bank charter or licenses. we may be unable to reach a similar agreement with another partner on favorable terms or at all, and obtaining a bank charter or lending licenses would be a time-consuming and costly process and would subject us to additional laws and regulatory requirements, which could be burdensome and increase our costs. in addition, our commercial relationships with third parties which are federally supervised u.s. financial institutions could subject us to examination by their federal banking regulators with respect to certain services that we provide. in 2015, the u.s. second circuit court of appeals, madden v. midland funding, llc (786 f.3d 246 (2d cir. 2015)), concluded that the buyer of a charged off credit card account could not rely on the national bank act's preemption of state interest rate limits for interest at rates imposed by the buyer after charge-off. a petition to the u.s. supreme court to review the decision was denied in june 2016, and the case has been remanded to the lower court to be determined in accordance with the ruling of the second circuit. the decision has resulted in some uncertainty as to whether non-bank entities purchasing loans originated by a bank may rely on federal preemption of state usury laws, and may create an increased risk of litigation by plaintiffs challenging our ability to collect interest and fees in accordance with the terms of certain loans. although the madden decision specifically addressed preemption under the national bank act, this decision could support future challenges to federal preemption for other institutions, including fdic-insured, state chartered industrial banks like those that we rely on to issue our loan products in the u.s. although we believe the madden case can be distinguished from the manner in which we offer our credit products, there can be no assurances as to the outcome of any potential litigation, or that the possible impact of such litigation will not have a material adverse impact on our business. our credit products expose us to additional risks. our paypal credit and paypal working capital products are offered to a wide range of consumers and merchants, and the financial success of these products depends on the effective management of the risk related to these products. the lender for the paypal credit product extends credit using proprietary segmentation and credit algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of specific consumers based on their past purchasing and payment history with paypal as well as their credit scores. similarly, to assess a merchant who wishes to obtain a paypal working capital advance, among other indicators, the lender applies a proprietary risk model to help predict the merchant's ability to repay the working capital advance. these risk models may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer or merchant due to inaccurate assumptions about the particular consumer or merchant or the economic environment or limited transaction history, among other factors. the accuracy of these risk models and the ability of the lender and our ability to manage credit risk related to our paypal credit and paypal working capital products may also be affected by legal or regulatory changes, competitors' actions, changes in consumer behavior, changes in the economic environment and other factors. like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from consumer and merchant credit, we face the risk that paypal credit and paypal working capital account holders will default on their payment obligation, creating the risk of potential charge-offs. the non-payment rate among account holders may increase due to, among other things, changes to underwriting standards, worsening economic conditions, such as a recession or greater austerity in various countries, increases in prevailing interest rates, and high unemployment rates. account holders who miss payments often fail to repay their loans, and account holders who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their loans. we purchase receivables related to our paypal credit products, and originated loans with respect to our paypal working capital products. if we are unable to fund our purchase of these receivables adequately or in a cost-effective manner, or if we are unable to efficiently manage the cash resources utilized for these purposes, our business could be harmed. our international expansion of our paypal credit product offerings exposes us to additional risks, including those discussed below under the risk factor titled our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business. 23 table of contents our business may be impacted by political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to the economy and commerce on a global or regional basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our customers, and companies with which we do business. our business operations are subject to interruption by, among others, natural disasters, fire, power shortages, earthquakes, floods, nuclear power plant accidents and other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products and services or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products and services to our customers. in the event of a natural disaster, we could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time and experience significant expenditures in order to resume operations. changes to our buyer and seller protection programs could increase our loss rate. our buyer and seller protection programs protect merchants and consumers from fraudulent transactions. in 2015, we increased the scope of our buyer protection program to cover digital goods and intangible goods and services. in addition, consumers who pay through paypal may have reimbursement rights from their payment card issuer (usually a bank), which in turn will seek recovery from us. the risk of losses from our buyer and seller protection programs are specific to individual buyers, sellers and transactions, and may also be impacted by regional variations to these programs, modifications to these programs resulting from changes in regulatory requirements, or changes that we decide to implement, such as expanding the scope of transactions covered by one or more of these programs. upon paypal becoming an independent publicly traded company on july 17, 2015, we extended our protection programs in several countries to cover certain customers' purchases on ebay, and our costs associated with these programs have therefore increased. increases in our loss rate, including as a result of changing our buyer and seller protection programs, could harm our business. our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business. our international operations have generated approximately one-half of our net revenues in recent years. in addition to uncertainty about our ability to generate revenues from our foreign operations and expand into international markets, and the foreign currency risks discussed earlier in this risk factors section under the caption we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally on both a domestic (i.e., in-country) and cross-border basis, including: expenses associated with localizing our products and services and customer data, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency and adapting our products and services to local preferences (e.g., payment methods) with which we may have limited or no experience; trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; stringent local labor laws and regulations; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange restrictions or extreme fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates for a particular currency; political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; geopolitical events, including natural disasters, public health issues, acts of war, and terrorism; import or export regulations; compliance with u.s. laws and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, and other local anticorruption laws; compliance with u.s. and foreign laws designed to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities; antitrust and competition regulations; potentially adverse tax developments and consequences; economic uncertainties relating to sovereign and other debt; different, uncertain, or more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy, and other laws; risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws; data localization requirements; risks related to multiple overlapping legal or regulatory regimes, which may impose conflicting requirements on us; national or regional differences in macroeconomic growth rates; local licensing and reporting obligations; and increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. 24 table of contents violations of the complex foreign and u.s. laws, rules and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, violations by our employees, contractors, or agents could nevertheless occur. these risks are inherent in our international operations and expansion, may increase our costs of doing business internationally, and could harm our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. we are exposed to interest rate risk from our investment portfolio and from interest-rate sensitive assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our balance sheet as customer accounts. a low interest rate environment or reductions in interest rates may negatively impact our investment income and our net income. in addition, fluctuations in interest rates may adversely impact our customers' spending levels and ability and willingness to pay outstanding amounts owed to us. higher interest rates often lead to higher payment obligations by customers to us and other lenders under mortgage, credit card and other consumer loans, which may reduce our customers' ability to remain current on their obligations to us and therefore lead to increased delinquencies, charge-offs and allowance for loan and interest receivable which could have an adverse effect on our net income. in july 2015, we entered into a revolving credit facility. as a result, to the extent of our borrowings under the facility, which bear interest at a floating rate, we will be exposed to interest rate fluctuations. use of our payments services for illegal purposes could harm our business. our payment system is susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses, including money laundering, terrorist financing, illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software, movies, music, and other copyrighted or trademarked goods (in particular, digital goods), money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, online securities fraud, or to facilitate other illegal activity. certain activity that may be legal in one country may be illegal in another country, and a merchant may intentionally or inadvertently be found responsible for importing or exporting illegal goods, resulting in liability for us. changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities and additional payments-related proposals are under active consideration by government authorities. intellectual property rights owners or government authorities may seek to bring legal action against providers of payments solutions, including paypal, that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing items. any threatened or resulting claims could result in reputational harm, and any resulting liabilities, loss of transaction volume or increased costs could harm our business. our failure to manage our customer funds and the assets underlying our customer funds properly could harm our business. we hold a substantial amount of funds belonging to our customers, including deposits in customer accounts and funds being remitted to sellers of goods and services. our ability to manage and account accurately for the assets underlying our customer funds requires a high level of internal controls. as our business continues to grow and we expand our product offerings, we must continue to strengthen our associated internal controls. for example, in march 2016, as approved by the supervisory board of paypal (europe) and as permitted by the cssf, certain european customer balances held in our luxembourg banking subsidiary are being used to extend credit to our european customers. our success requires significant public confidence in our ability to properly manage our customers' balances and handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. any failure to maintain the necessary controls or to manage our customer funds and the assets underlying our customer funds accurately could result in reputational harm, lead customers to discontinue or reduce their use of our products and result in significant penalties and fines, which could materially harm our business. we are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws. we are subject to scrutiny by various government agencies under u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including antitrust and competition laws. an increasing number of jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the u.s., individual states, other countries, or the european commission, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. an increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities, including increased scrutiny in large markets such as china. our business agreements or arrangements with customers or other companies could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. some regulators, particularly those outside of the u.s., may perceive our business to be used so broadly that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. any claims or investigations, even if without foundation, may be very expensive to defend or respond to, involve negative publicity 25 table of contents and substantial diversion of management time and effort, and could result in reputational harm, significant judgments against us, or require us to change our business practices. we are subject to patent litigation. we have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties' patents. at any given time, we are typically a defendant in a number of patent lawsuits and have been notified of several other potential patent disputes. we expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims because, among other reasons: our products and services continue to expand in scope and complexity; we continue to expand into new business areas, including through acquisitions; and the number of patent owners who may claim that we, any of the companies that we have acquired, or our customers infringe their patents, and the aggregate number of patents controlled by such patent owners, continues to increase. such claims may be brought directly against us or against our customers whom we may indemnify either because we are contractually obligated to do so or we choose to do so as a business matter. we believe that an increasing number of these claims against us and other technology companies have been, and continue to be, initiated by third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. in addition, we have seen significant patent disputes between operating companies in some technology industries. patent claims, whether meritorious or not, are time-consuming and costly to defend and resolve, and could require us to make expensive changes in our methods of doing business, enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, make substantial payments to satisfy adverse judgments or settle claims or proceedings, or cease conducting certain operations, which would harm our business. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets, is important to the success of our business. we seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. we also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services, including confidentiality and invention assignment agreements entered into with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business. effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available. we may be required to expend significant time and expense in order to prevent infringement or to enforce our rights. although we have generally taken measures to protect our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting or enforcing our rights in every jurisdiction, or that contractual arrangements and other steps that we have taken to protect our intellectual property will prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property or deter independent development of equivalent or superior intellectual property rights by others. if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, the value of our brands could be diminished and our business could be adversely affected. also, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. we have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. these licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. any failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or significant costs incurred in doing so, could diminish the value of our intangible assets and materially harm our business. as the number of products in the technology and payments industries increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual property infringement and other claims. litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of the patent and other intellectual property rights of others. the ultimate outcome of any allegation is often uncertain and, regardless of the outcome, any such claim, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management's time and attention from our business, and require us to, among other things, stop providing transaction processing and other payment-related services or redesign, stop selling our products or services, pay substantial amounts to satisfy judgments or settle claims or lawsuits, pay substantial royalty or licensing fees, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with certain parties with whom we have commercial relationships. our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation or claims arising out of intellectual property matters, may harm our business. 26 table of contents we are regularly subject to general litigation, regulatory disputes, and government inquiries. we are regularly subject to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, government and regulatory investigations, inquiries or requests, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust law, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, information security, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, sanctions, anti-corruption, consumer protection, accessibility claims, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, services, escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property, and other matters. in particular, our business faces ongoing consumer protection and intellectual property litigation, as discussed above. the number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as our company has grown larger, our business has expanded in scope and geographic reach, and our products and services have increased in complexity. in addition, the laws, rules and regulations affecting our business, including those pertaining to internet and mobile commerce, payments services, and credit, are subject to ongoing interpretation by the courts and governmental authorities, and the resulting uncertainty in the scope and application of these laws, rules and regulations increases the risk that we will be subject to private claims and governmental actions alleging violations of those laws, rules and regulations. the scope, outcome and impact of claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and proceedings that we are subject to cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of the outcome, such investigations and proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, reputational damage, and other factors. determining reserves for our pending litigation and regulatory proceedings is a complex, fact-intensive process that is subject to management's judgment. resolving one or more such legal and regulatory proceedings could potentially require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments, fines or penalties or to settle claims or proceedings, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business. these proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain products or services, requiring a change in our business practices in costly ways or development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. any of these consequences could materially and adversely affect our business. certain of our customer agreements contain arbitration provisions with class action waiver provisions that may limit our exposure to consumer class action litigation, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in enforcing these arbitration provisions, or the class action waiver provisions in them, in the future or in any given case. legislative, administrative or regulatory developments may directly or indirectly prohibit or limit the use of pre-dispute arbitration clauses and class action waiver provisions. any such prohibitions or limitations on or discontinuation of the use of such arbitration or class action waiver provisions could subject us to additional lawsuits, including additional consumer class action litigation, or materially impact our ability to avoid exposure from consumer class action litigation. we may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world. any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the periods for which such determination is made. while we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient. in addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated, or by the incurrence of losses, in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, as a result of gains on our foreign exchange risk management program, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. various levels of government, such as u.s. federal and state legislatures, and international organizations, such as the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ) and the eu, are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative or regulatory action to increase tax revenue. any such tax reform or other legislative or regulatory actions could increase our effective tax rate. we and our merchants may be subject to sales reporting and record-keeping obligations. a number of u.s. states, the u.s. federal government and foreign countries have implemented or are in the process of implementing reporting or record-keeping obligations on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce to improve tax compliance. additionally, a number of jurisdictions are reviewing whether payment service providers and other intermediaries could be deemed 27 table of contents the legal agent of merchants for certain tax purposes. we have modified our software to meet known requirements and expect further modifications will be required to comply with future requirements, which may change our customer experience and increase operational costs. any failure by us to comply with these and similar reporting and record-keeping obligations could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, impact our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions, and harm our business. acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic investments, and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties and could harm our business. acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic investments, and other strategic transactions are important elements of our overall corporate strategy. we expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions of certain businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets, as well as joint ventures, strategic investments, and commercial and strategic partnerships. these transactions may involve significant challenges and risks, including: the potential loss of key customers, vendors and other key business partners of the companies we acquire, or dispose of, following and continuing after announcement of our transaction plans; declining employee morale and retention issues affecting employees of companies that we acquire or dispose of, which may result from changes in compensation, management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the acquired or disposed business; difficulty making strategic hires of new employees; diversion of management time and a shift of focus from operating the business to the transaction, and in the case of an acquisition, integration and administration; the need to integrate the operations, systems (including accounting, management, information, compliance, human resource and other administrative systems), technologies, products and personnel of each acquired company, which is an inherently risky and potentially lengthy and costly process; the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if such integration is delayed or not implemented, and unforeseen difficulties and expenditures that may arise as a result; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that, prior to acquisition, may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies or whose controls, procedures and policies did not meet applicable legal, regulatory and other standards; potential exposure to new or increased regulatory oversight and regulatory obligations associated with new products or entry into new markets; risks associated with our expansion into new international markets; risks associated with the complexity of entering into and effective managing joint ventures, strategic investments, and other strategic partnerships lawsuits resulting from the transaction; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property and other litigation claims or disputes, violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; the potential loss of key employees following the transaction; the acquisition of new customer and employee personal information, which in and of itself may require regulatory approval and or additional controls, policies and procedures and subject us to additional exposure and additional complexity and costs of compliance; and our dependence on the accounting, financial reporting, operating metrics and similar systems, controls and processes of acquired businesses and the risk that errors or irregularities in those systems, controls and processes will lead to errors in our financial statements or make it more difficult to manage the acquired business. at any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these or other types of transactions, any of which could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to our financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, and consummating favorable transaction opportunities. it may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. any acquisitions or dispositions may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders. joint ventures and minority investment inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational and/or compliance risks associated with the joint venture or minority investment. in addition, we may be dependent on joint venture partners, controlling shareholders, management or other persons or entities who 28 table of contents control them may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours. business decisions or other actions or omissions of the joint venture partners, controlling shareholders, management or other persons or entities who control them may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us and otherwise damage our reputation and brand. we rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, which creates additional risk. we rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, including the following: networks, banks, payment processors, and payment gateways that link us to the payment card and bank clearing networks to process transactions; unaffiliated third-party lenders to make consumer and merchant loans originated in the u.s. for our paypal credit and paypal working capital products, respectively; third parties that provide loan servicing and customer statements processing; third parties that provide certain outsourced customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations; and third parties that provide facilities, infrastructure, components and services, including data center facilities and cloud computing. third parties that we rely on to process transactions may fail or refuse to process transactions adequately, and these and other third parties on whom we rely may breach their agreements with us, refuse to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, take actions that degrade the functionality of our services, impose additional costs or requirements on us, or give preferential treatment to competitive services. financial or regulatory issues, labor issues, or other problems that prevent these third parties from providing services to us or our customers could harm our business. if our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, damage our reputation, and harm our business. price increases or financial penalties by, or service terminations, disruptions or interruptions at, companies that we rely on to provide services to us or our customers could disrupt our operations and harm our business. some third parties who provide services to us may have or gain market power and be able to increase their prices to us without competitive constraint. in addition, there can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to us or our customers will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. if any third parties were to stop providing services to us or our customers on acceptable terms, including as a result of bankruptcy or other business interruption, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. our developer platforms, which are open to merchants and third-party developers, subject us to additional risks. we provide third-party developers with access to application programming interfaces, software development kits and other tools designed to allow them to produce applications for use, with a particular focus on mobile applications. there can be no assurance that merchants or third-party developers will develop and maintain applications and services on our open platforms on a timely basis or at all, and a number of factors could cause such third-party developers to curtail or stop development for our platforms. in addition, our business is subject to many regulatory restrictions. it is possible that merchants and third-party developers who utilize our development platforms or tools could violate these regulatory restrictions and we may be held responsible for such violations, which could harm our business. our retail point of sale solutions expose us to additional risks. we have announced several retail point of sale solutions, which enable merchants to accept payments using a payments card reader attached to, or otherwise communicating with, a mobile device or to scan payment cards and codes using the mobile device's embedded camera, and which enable consumers to use their mobile devices to pay at the point of sale. we have entered into strategic partnerships with visa, mastercard and discover to further expand our relationship with these companies in a way that will make it easier for merchants to accept and consumers to choose to pay for transactions utilizing these companies' credit and debit cards. as part of those agreements, we will gain access to each of these partner's tokenization services in the u.s. for in-store point-of-sale paypal transactions, which we expect will increase the number of point of sale transactions that we process. as we continue to expand our product and service offerings at the retail point of sale, we will face additional risks, including: increased expectations from offline retailers regarding the reliability and availability of our systems and services and correspondingly lower amounts of downtime, which we may not be able to meet; significant competition at the retail point of sale, particularly from established payment card providers such as visa, mastercard and american express, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do; 29 table of contents increased targeting by fraudsters; given that our fraud models are less developed in this area, we may experience increases in fraud and associated transaction losses as we adjust to fraudulent activity at the point of sale; exposure to product liability claims to the extent that hardware devices that we produce for use at the retail point of sale malfunction or are not in compliance with laws, which could result in substantial liability and require product recalls or other actions; exposure to additional laws, rules and regulations; increased reliance on third parties involved with processing in-store payments, including independent software providers, electronic point of sale providers, hardware providers (such as cash register and pin-pad providers), payment processors and banks that enable in-store transactions; and lower operating income than our other payment solutions. unless we are able to successfully manage these risks, including driving adoption of, and significant volume through, our retail point of sale solutions over time, our business may be harmed. our success largely depends on key personnel. because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain, and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. the loss of key personnel could harm our business. our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of key personnel, including our executive team and other highly skilled employees, and our ability to attract, retain, and motivate such personnel. competition for key personnel is intense, especially in the san francisco bay area, where our corporate headquarters are located and where the cost of living is high, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified key personnel. in making employment decisions, particularly in the technology and payments industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment, and fluctuations in our stock price, or a perception that the market price of our stock may not increase or may increase more slowly than stock prices at other technology or payments companies, may make it more difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees. we are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws or policies. in addition, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our inability to attract highly qualified key personnel, could harm our business. we are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our products and services. companies providing online services may be subject to claims relating to information disseminated through them, including claims alleging defamation, libel, breach of contract, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, among other things. the laws relating to the liability of companies providing online services for information disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges both in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. we are also subject to potential liability to third parties for the customer-provided content on our products and services, particularly in jurisdictions outside the u.s. where the applicable laws are unsettled. if we become liable for information provided by our customers and carried on our products and services, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain product or service offerings, which could harm our business. risks related to the separation and our operation as an independent publicly traded company if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the internal revenue code (the code ), ebay, paypal and ebay stockholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify ebay for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. on july 17, 2015, we became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by ebay inc. of 100% our outstanding common stock to ebay's stockholders (which we sometimes refer to as the separation or the distribution ). ebay received an opinion from its outside legal counsel regarding the qualification of the distribution, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code. the opinion was based on and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of ebay and of us, including those relating to the past and future conduct of ebay and of us. if any of these representations, statements or undertakings were, or became, inaccurate or incomplete, or if ebay or we breach any of our respective covenants in the separation documents, the opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. 30 table of contents notwithstanding the opinion of counsel, the irs could determine that the distribution, together with certain related transactions, should be treated as a taxable transaction if the irs determines that any of these representations, assumptions, or undertakings upon which such opinion was based are incorrect or have been violated or if the irs disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. an opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs or any court and there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reached in the opinion. the irs did not provide any opinion in advance of the separation that our proposed transaction is tax-free. if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code, in general, ebay would recognize taxable gain as if it had sold the paypal common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, ebay stockholders who received paypal common stock in the distribution may be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares and we could incur significant liabilities. we may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital-raising transactions for a period of time following the separation. in addition, we could be liable for adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in significant strategic or capital-raising transactions. to preserve the tax-free treatment to ebay of the separation and the distribution, under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with ebay, for a period of time following the distribution, we are generally prohibited from taking certain actions that prevent the distribution and related transactions from qualifying as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that we or our stockholders consider desirable or may prevent us from engaging in certain capital-raising transactions. we have limited history of operating as an independent, publicly traded company in our current form, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the consolidated financial statements included in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k were derived in part from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of ebay and do not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, independent, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future, primarily as a result of the factors described below: prior to the separation, our business was operated by ebay as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. ebay or its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us, such as legal, finance, treasury, accounting, tax, auditing, human resources, certain compliance functions, and public affairs. our historical financial results prior to separation reflect allocations of corporate expenses from ebay for such functions, which are likely to be less than the comparable expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly traded company. in addition, we may need to significantly increase our investment in certain of these functions to ensure appropriate levels of administrative, legal and regulatory compliance. prior to the separation, our business was integrated with the other businesses of ebay. historically, we shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. although we have entered into arm's length agreements with ebay, including the operating agreement, these arrangements may not retain or fully capture the benefits that we enjoyed as a result of being integrated with ebay and may result in our paying higher charges than in the past for these services. this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. as a part of ebay, we benefited from, among other things, the acquisition of new customers from ebay, capital to fund acquisitions, investments and credit, and data from ebay that helped us to manage risks and maintain a low loss rate. in addition, being a part of ebay enabled us to leverage ebay's technology capabilities, data, commerce platforms and relationships with retailers, brands and large merchants worldwide. the loss of these synergies and benefits could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, were historically satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of ebay. we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or through strategic relationships or other arrangements, which may or may not be available and may be more costly. the cost of capital for our business may be higher than ebay's cost of capital prior to the separation. we may continue to experience significant changes in our cost structure, management, financing, and business operations as a result of operating as an independent company separate from ebay. for additional information, please see management's 31 table of contents discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k. ebay remains a significant source of our revenues. we continue to derive a significant amount of revenues and operating income from ebay. our relationship with ebay is governed in part by an operating agreement that was entered into at separation and has a term of five years. when our operating agreement with ebay expires, or if it is terminated prior to its expiration, or if there is a significant change in our relationship with ebay, including if ebay becomes a merchant of record, eliminates or modifies any of its risk management or customer protection programs, directs transactions to a different provider of payment services or offers ebay customers more payment options, our business could be materially harmed. ebay may fail to perform under various agreements that were executed as part of the separation or we may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expire. in connection with the separation, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with ebay as well as various other agreements, including an operating agreement, colocation services agreements, transition services agreements, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, an intellectual property matters agreement, a data sharing addendum, and a product development agreement. the separation agreement, the tax matters agreement, the employee matters agreement, and the intellectual property matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities (including by means of licensing) between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. the operating agreement, the colocation services agreements and the data sharing addendum establish certain commercial relationships between ebay and us related to payment processing, credit, information technology infrastructure and data sharing. the transition services agreements provide for the performance of certain services by each company for the benefit of the other for a limited period of time after the separation. if we or ebay is unable to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements, including its respective indemnification obligations, we could incur operational difficulties or losses or be required to make substantial indemnification or other payments to ebay. if we do not have in place our own systems and services, or if we do not have agreements with other providers of these services once these transaction agreements expire or terminate, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our financial condition and result of operations may be adversely affected. after the separation, certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their previous or continuing positions at ebay. because of their current or former positions with ebay, certain of our directors own ebay common stock and equity awards. following the separation, even though our board of directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent, some of our directors continue to have a financial interest in ebay common stock and equity awards. in addition, one of our directors continues to serve on the ebay board of directors. continuing ownership of ebay common stock and equity awards or service as a director at both companies could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if we and ebay were to have disagreements about the agreements between us or face decisions that could have different implications for us and ebay. risks related to our common stock the price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts; changes in our capital structure; speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community; the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which we operate; and market conditions or trends in the payments industry, the industries of merchants and the domestic and worldwide economy as a whole. 32 table of contents our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the state courts of the state of delaware, or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the corporation otherwise determines, the state courts of the state of delaware, or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to us or our stockholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the delaware general corporation law ( dgcl ) or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. alternatively, if a court outside of delaware were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we could incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of deterring coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and by encouraging prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include, among others: rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the fact that directors may not be elected, removed or replaced at stockholder-requested special meetings unless a person, entity or group owns at least a majority of our outstanding common stock; the right of our board to issue preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend and other rights of preferred stock without stockholder approval; and the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors in most circumstances and to determine the size of our board of directors; the prohibition on stockholders acting by written consent; and the absence of cumulative rights in the election of directors. we have also elected not to be governed by section 203 of the dgcl, which provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, however, contains a provision that generally mirrors section 203 of the dgcl, except that it provides for a 20% threshold instead of the 15% provided for by the dgcl. these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may favor. certain of the above provisions were added pursuant to the agreement between ebay inc. and certain entities under the control of carl c. icahn. these provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and may delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. in addition, an acquisition or further issuance of our stock (including preferred stock) could trigger the application of section 355(e) of the code. for a discussion of section 355(e), see material u.s. federal income tax consequences in our registration statement on form 10, as amended, filed with the securities and exchange commission. under the tax matters agreement, in such circumstances, we would be required to indemnify ebay for any resulting taxes, which could materially and adversely affect us. moreover, this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. please refer to certain relationships and related person transactions and description of paypal's capital stock in our registration statement on form 10, as amended, filed with the securities and exchange commission for a more detailed description of these agreements and provisions. 33 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our investing, funding, and foreign currency derivative activities in order to mitigate market risks. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk relating to our investment portfolio and from interest-rate sensitive assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our consolidated balance sheet as customer accounts. we seek to reduce earnings volatility that may result from changes in interest rates. as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 , approximately 25% and 24% , respectively, of our total cash and investment portfolio was held in cash and cash equivalents. the assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our consolidated balance sheet as customer accounts are maintained in interest and non-interest bearing bank deposits, time deposits, and u.s. and foreign government and agency securities. we classify the assets underlying the customer balances as current based on their purpose and availability to fulfill our direct obligation under amounts due to customers. we seek to preserve principal while holding eligible liquid assets, as defined by applicable regulatory requirements and commercial law in jurisdictions where we operate, equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of all customer balances. we do not pay interest on amounts due to customers. in the third quarter of 2015, we entered into a $2 billion senior unsecured credit facility maturing in 2020. borrowings under the revolving facility, if any, bear interest at floating rates. as a result, we will be exposed to fluctuations in interest rates to the extent of our borrowings under the revolving credit facility. as of december 31, 2016 , no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under the credit agreement. interest rates may also adversely impact our customers' spending levels and ability and willingness to pay outstanding amounts owed to us. higher interest rates often lead to higher payment obligations by customers to us and other lenders under mortgage, credit card and other consumer loan obligations, which may reduce our customers' ability to remain current on their obligations to us and therefore may lead to increased delinquencies, charge-offs and allowances for loan and interest receivable, which could have an adverse effect on our net earnings. a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would not have had a material impact on our financial assets or liabilities at december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 . foreign currency risk we have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, australian dollar and canadian dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency risk which may adversely impact our financial results. we transact business in various foreign currencies and have significant international revenues as well as costs. in addition, we charge our international subsidiaries for their use of intellectual property and technology and for certain corporate services. our cash flow, results of operations and certain of our intercompany balances that are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations may differ materially from expectations and we may record significant gains or losses due to foreign currency fluctuations and related hedging activities. we are generally a net receiver of foreign currencies and therefore benefit from a weakening of the u.s. dollar, and are adversely affected by a strengthening of the u.s. dollar, relative to foreign currencies. we have a foreign exchange exposure management program designed to identify material foreign currency exposures, manage these exposures and reduce the potential effects of currency fluctuations on our reported consolidated cash flows and results of operations through foreign currency exchange contracts. these foreign currency exchange contracts are accounted for as derivative instruments; for additional details related to our foreign currency exchange contracts, please see note 8 derivative instruments to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. we use foreign exchange forward contracts to protect our forecasted u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of adverse currency exchange rate movements. we designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) and subsequently reclassified into revenue in the same period the forecasted transaction affects earnings. the ineffective portion of the unrealized gains and losses on these contracts, if any, is recorded immediately in earnings. 57 table of contents we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. if the u.s. dollar weakened by 20% at december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 , the amount recorded in aoci related to our foreign currency exchange forward contracts, before taxes, would have been approximately $341 million and $321 million lower, respectively. if the u.s. dollar strengthened by 20% at december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 , the amount recorded in aoci related to our foreign currency exchange forward contracts, before taxes, would have been approximately $341 million and $321 million higher, respectively. we have an additional foreign exchange management program whereby we use foreign currency exchange contracts to offset the foreign currency exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. these contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. the foreign currency gains and losses on our assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, which is offset by the gains and losses on the foreign currency exchange contracts. adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before income taxes of approximately $160 million and $136 million at december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015, respectively, without considering the offsetting effect of hedging. foreign currency exchange contracts in place as of december 31, 2016 would have positively impacted income before income taxes by approximately $128 million , resulting in a net negative impact of approximately $32 million . foreign currency exchange contracts in place as of december 31, 2015 would have positively impacted income before income taxes by approximately $133 million , resulting in a net negative impact of approximately $3 million . these reasonably possible adverse changes in currency exchange rates of 20% were applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries at the balance sheet dates to compute the adverse impact these changes would have had on our income before income taxes as of these dates. equity price risk as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 , our cost method investments totaled $50 million and $26 million , respectively, which represented less than 1% of our total cash and investment portfolio and were primarily related to cost method investments in privately held companies. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, we did not hold any marketable equity instruments. we review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate a decline in fair value of such assets below carrying value is other-than-temporary. our analysis includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales and acquisitions of the securities in which we have invested and other publicly available data. european debt exposures we actively monitor our exposure to the european markets, including the impact of sovereign debt issues associated with cyprus, greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain. as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 , we did not have any direct investments in the sovereign debt of these countries or in debt securities issued by corporations or financial institutions organized in these countries. we maintain a small number of operating bank accounts with local and foreign banks in the aforementioned countries that have balances that we do not consider material.risk factors 11 risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). we do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. you should read the information in this report in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. item 1. business overview paypal holdings, inc. was incorporated in delaware in january 2015 and is a leading technology platform and digital payments company that enables digital and mobile payments on behalf of consumers and merchants worldwide. our vision is to democratize financial services, as we believe that managing and moving money is a right for all people, not just the affluent. our goal is to increase our relevance for consumers and merchants to manage and move their money anywhere in the world, anytime, on any platform and using any device. our combined payment solutions, including our paypal, paypal credit, braintree, venmo, xoom, and paydiant products, compose our proprietary payments platform. we operate a two-sided proprietary global technology platform that links our customers, which consist of both merchants and consumers, around the globe to facilitate the processing of payment transactions, allowing us to connect millions of merchants and consumers worldwide. we offer our customers the flexibility to use their account to both purchase and receive payment for goods and services, as well as to transfer and withdraw funds. we enable consumers to more safely exchange funds with merchants using a variety of funding sources, which may include a bank account, a paypal account balance, a paypal credit account, a credit or debit card or other stored value products such as coupons and gift cards. our paypal, venmo and xoom products also make it safer and simpler for friends and family to transfer funds to each other. we offer merchants an end-to-end payments solution that provides authorization and settlement capabilities, as well as instant access to funds. we help merchants connect with their customers and manage risk. we enable consumers to engage in cross-border shopping and merchants to extend their global reach while reducing the complexity and friction involved in enabling overseas and cross-border trade. we generate revenues by charging fees for providing transaction processing and other payment-related services based primarily on the volume of activity processed through our payments platform. we generally do not charge consumers to fund or draw from their accounts; however, we generate revenue from consumers on fees charged for foreign currency exchange. we also earn revenue by providing value added services to consumers and merchants, such as our paypal credit and gateway services. our gateway services, which include our payflow gateway services and braintree gateway services, provide the technology that links a merchant's website to its processing network and merchant account and enable merchants to accept payments online with credit or debit cards. strategy our ability to grow revenue is affected by, among other things, consumer spending patterns, merchant and consumer adoption of digital payment methods, the expansion of multiple commerce channels, the growth of mobile devices and merchant and consumer applications on those devices, the growth of consumers globally with internet and mobile access, the pace of transition from cash and checks to digital forms of payment, our share of the digital payments market, and our ability to innovate new methods of payment that merchants and consumers value. our strategy to drive growth in our business includes the following: 4 table of contents growing our core : through expanding our global capabilities, customer base and scale, increasing our customers' use of our products and services by better addressing their everyday needs related to accessing, managing and moving money and expanding the adoption of our solutions by new merchants and consumers; expanding our value proposition for customers : by focusing on trust and simplicity, providing risk management and insights from our two-sided payments platform and being technology and platform agnostic; extending through strategic partnerships : by building new strategic partnerships to provide better experiences for our customers, offering greater choice and flexibility, acquiring new customers and reinforcing our role in the ecosystem; and seeking new areas of growth : through new international markets around the world and focusing on innovation both in the digital and the physical world. key performance metrics we measure the relevance of our products to our customers, and therefore the success of our business, through active customer accounts, payment volume and payment transactions: active customer accounts : an active customer account is a registered account that successfully sent or received at least one payment or payment reversal through our payments platform, excluding transactions processed through our gateway and paydiant products, in the past 12 months. as of december 31, 2017, we had approximately 227 million active customer accounts across more than 200 markets. a market is a geographic area or political jurisdiction, such as a country, territory, or protectorate, in which we offer our services. a country, territory or protectorate is identified by a distinct set of laws and regulations. number of payment transactions : number of payment transactions is defined as the total number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments platform, excluding transactions processed through our gateway and paydiant products. total payment volume ( tpv ) : tpv is the value of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments platform, excluding transactions processed through our gateway and paydiant products. 5 table of contents our strengths our business is built on a strong foundation designed to drive growth and differentiate us from our competitors. we believe that our competitive strengths include the following: two-sided platform - our platform connecting merchants and consumers enables paypal to offer unique end-to-end product experiences while gaining valuable insights into customer behavior through our data. our platform provides for simple digital and mobile transactions while being both brand and technology agnostic. scale - our global scale allows us to drive organic growth. as of december 31, 2017, we had 227 million active customer accounts, which included 18 million active merchant accounts. in 2017, we processed $451 billion of tpv in more than 200 markets around the world. brand - we have built a well-recognized and trusted brand. our marketing efforts play an important role in building brand visibility, usage and overall preference among customers. risk management - our risk management system and tokenization usage are designed to keep our customers safe and to ensure we process legitimate transactions around the world, while reducing illegal, high-risk, or fraudulent transactions. regulatory - we believe that our regulatory licenses, which enable us to operate in markets around the world, are a distinct advantage and support business growth. technology our payments platform utilizes a combination of proprietary technologies and services as well as technologies and services provided by third parties to efficiently and securely facilitate transactions between millions of merchants and consumers worldwide across different channels, markets and networks. our payments platform connects with financial institutions around the world and allows consumers to make purchases using a wide range of payment methods, regardless of where a merchant is located. consumers who use our payments platform can send payments in more than 200 markets across the globe and in more than 100 currencies, withdraw funds to their bank accounts in 56 currencies and hold balances in their paypal accounts in 25 currencies. a transaction on our payments platform can involve multiple participants in addition to us including a merchant, a consumer and the consumer's funding source provider. we have developed intuitive user interfaces, customer tools on our payments platform, transaction processing, and database and network applications that help our customers utilize our suite of products and services. our payments platform, open application programming interfaces, and developer tools are designed to enable developers to innovate with ease and offer robust applications to our global ecosystem of merchants and consumers, while at the same time maintaining the security of our customers' financial information. the technology infrastructure supporting our payments platform simplifies the storage and processing of large amounts of data, and facilitates the deployment and operation of large-scale global products and services and automates much of the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. our technology infrastructure has been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences. our payments platform incorporates multiple layers of protection, both for continuity and system redundancy purposes and to help address cybersecurity challenges. we engage in multiple efforts to protect our technology infrastructure and payments platform against these challenges, including regularly testing our systems to address potential vulnerabilities. we strive to continually improve our technology infrastructure and payments platform to enhance the customer experience and to increase efficiency, scalability and security. merchant and consumer payment solutions our combined payment solution capabilities offer our merchants and consumers a broad range of products and services, enabling our merchants to safely and simply receive payments from their customers while allowing our consumers to make seamless transactions across different markets and networks. we partner with our merchants to help grow and expand their businesses by improving sales conversion, providing global reach, offering alternative payment methods, reducing losses through proprietary protection programs and leveraging data analytics. merchants can onboard quickly with paypal and are not required to invest in new or specialized hardware. for our standard service, we do not charge merchants setup or recurring fees. we offer access to credit products for certain small and medium-sized merchants through paypal working capital and, with the recent acquisition of swift financial corporation ("swift"), other business loan products. our paypal working capital product allows businesses to borrow a certain percentage of their annual payment volume 6 table of contents processed by paypal for a fee. our swift business loan products provide businesses with access to short-term business financing based on an evaluation of both the applying business as well as the business owner. we believe that our business financing offerings allow us to deepen our engagement with our small and medium-sized business merchants by providing them with access to capital to grow their business that they may not otherwise be able to effectively or efficiently access from traditional banks or other lending providers. our recent acquisition of swift also enables us to enhance our underwriting capabilities and strengthen our business financing offerings, helping us to deepen relationships with our existing merchants and expand services to new merchants. paypal is a popular form of payment for mobile commerce, and our business has grown with the increased adoption of mobile devices. we believe our braintree products strengthen our position in mobile payments and extend our coverage to a new class of retailers and service providers that offer their services primarily through mobile applications. through a single braintree integration, a merchant can begin accepting payments with credit or debit cards, paypal, android pay, apple pay, samsung pay and other payment solutions. we also offer gateway services, including our payflow gateway services and braintree gateway services, that enable merchants to accept payments online with credit or debit cards. our gateway services provide the payment gateway technology that links a merchant's website to its processing network and enable merchants to accept payments online with credit and debit cards. we focus on providing affordable consumer products intended to democratize the management and movement of money. we offer our customers the flexibility to use their account to both purchase and receive payment for goods and services, as well as transfer and withdraw funds. we enable consumers to more safely exchange funds with merchants using a variety of financial resources, which may include a bank account, a paypal account balance, a paypal credit account, a credit or debit card or other stored value products such as coupons and gift cards. we generally do not charge consumers to fund or draw from their accounts. we generate revenue from consumers on fees charged for foreign currency exchange and on interest and fees from our paypal credit product. we offer our paypal credit product to consumers as a potential funding source at checkout. once a consumer is approved for credit, paypal credit is made available as a funding source in their account. we believe that our consumer credit products allow us to increase engagement with both consumers and merchants on our two-sided network as well as differentiate ourselves from rival payment processors by helping merchants drive incremental sales through products like paypal credit. we are responsible for all servicing functions related to all of our credit products. in the u.s., credit originated through our paypal credit, paypal working capital and swift business loan products is currently extended through third-party financial institutions, from whom we purchase the related receivables. for our consumer and merchant credit products outside the u.s., we extend credit through certain international paypal subsidiaries. during the fourth quarter of 2017, we expanded our strategic consumer credit relationship with synchrony financial ("synchrony") and agreed to sell our u.s. consumer credit receivables portfolio to synchrony bank. following the closing of this transaction, which is expected to occur in the third quarter of 2018, synchrony bank will become the exclusive issuer of the paypal credit online consumer financing program in the u.s. and we will no longer hold any participation interest in the receivables generated through the program (other than charged off receivables). we offer consumers person-to-person ( p2p ) payment solutions through our paypal, venmo and xoom products. paypal continues to drive the majority of our total p2p volumes, enabling both domestic and international p2p transfers across our payments platform. our venmo app in the u.s. is a leading mobile application used to move money between friends and family. xoom is an international money transfer service that enables our customers to send money to, pay bills for and send prepaid mobile phone reloads for family and friends around the world in a secure, fast and cost-effective way, using their mobile device or personal computers. p2p is a significant customer acquisition channel with network effects that helps us to establish relationships with potential paypal users by allowing them to join our payments platform at the time of making or receiving p2p payments, which drives organic growth. protecting merchants and consumers protecting merchants and consumers on our payments platform from financial and data loss is imperative to successfully competing in the payments industry and sustainably growing our business. fraudulent activities, such as account takeover, identity theft and counterparty malicious activities, represent a significant and growing risk to merchants and consumers, as well as their payment partners. we provide merchants and consumers with protection programs on most purchase transactions completed through our payments platform, except for transactions using our gateway and paydiant products. we believe that these programs, which protect both merchants and consumers from financial and data loss due primarily to fraud and counterparty non-performance, are generally much broader than similar protections provided by other participants in the payments industry. many payment providers do not offer merchant protection in general, and those that do generally do not provide protection for online or card not present transactions. as a result, merchants may incur losses for chargebacks and other claims on certain transactions when using other payments providers that they would not incur if they used our payments services. we also provide consumer protection against losses on qualifying purchases and accept claims for 180 days post transaction in the markets that we serve. we believe that this protection is generally consistent with, or better than, that offered by other payments providers. we believe that as a result of these 7 table of contents programs, consumers can be confident that they will only be required to pay if they receive the product in the condition as described, and merchants can be confident that they will receive payment for the product that they are delivering to the customer. our ability to protect both consumers and merchants is based largely on our proprietary end-to-end payments platform and our ability to leverage the data we collect on both sides of the transactions on our two-sided network (i.e., from buyers and sellers, and from senders and receivers of payments). we believe mobile devices will continue to play a significant and increasing role in commerce, including by creating the opportunities to make our ecosystem safer. for example, paypal is able to use location data from mobile devices and growing protection for the mobile operating environment to reduce risk to merchants and consumers. our ongoing investment in systems and processes, designed to enhance the safety and security of our products, reflects our goal of having paypal recognized as one of the world's most trusted payments brands. competition the global payments industry is highly competitive. we compete against a wide range of businesses, including banks, credit card providers, technology and ecommerce companies and traditional retailers, many of which are larger than we are, have a dominant and secure position, or offer other products and services to consumers and merchants which we do not offer. we compete against all forms of payments, including credit and debit cards; automated clearing house and bank transfers; other online payment services; mobile payments; and offline payment methods, including cash and check. we compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain and engage both merchants and consumers with our two-sided platform; ability to show merchants that they may achieve incremental sales by offering our end-to-end services; consumer confidence in safety and security of transactions on our payments platform, including the ability for consumers to use our products and services without sharing their financial information with the merchant or the party they are paying; simplicity of our fee structure; ability to develop products and services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments, credit products and payments at the retail point of sale; trust in our dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service; brand recognition and preference; website, mobile platform and application onboarding, ease-of-use, speed, availability, and dependability; the technology and payment agnostic nature of our payments platform; system reliability and data security; ease and quality of integration into third-party mobile applications and operating systems; and quality of developer tools such as our application programming interfaces and software development kits. in addition to the discussion in this section, see item 1a. risk factors under the caption substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may harm our business for further discussion of the potential impact of competition on our business. research and development total research and development expense was $953 million , $834 million and $792 million in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. intellectual property the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the paypal name), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets is important to the success of our business. we seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. we also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services. we have routinely entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and non-disclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business to control access to and limit disclosure of our proprietary information. we pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the u.s. and internationally. additionally, we have filed u.s. and international patent applications covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology. we have registered our core brands as trademarks and domain names in the u.s. and a large number of other jurisdictions and have in place an active program to continue to secure trademarks and domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of interest. 8 table of contents for additional information regarding some of the risks relating to our intellectual property, including costs of protecting our intellectual property, see the information in item 1a. risk factors under the captions we are subject to patent litigation and we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. government regulation we operate globally and in a rapidly evolving regulatory environment characterized by a heightened regulatory focus on all aspects of the payments industry. that focus continues to become even more heightened as regulators on a global basis focus on such important issues as countering terrorist financing, anti-money laundering, privacy and consumer protection. some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject were enacted recently, and the laws and regulations applicable to us, including those enacted prior to the advent of digital and mobile payments, are continuing to evolve through legislative and regulatory action and judicial interpretation. non-compliance with laws and regulations, increased penalties and enforcement actions related to non-compliance, changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation, and the enactment of new laws and regulations applicable to us could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. therefore, we monitor these areas closely to design compliant solutions for our customers who depend on us. government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the markets we operate. payments regulation. various laws and regulations govern the payments industry in the u.s. and internationally. in the u.s., paypal, inc. holds licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent), which, among other things, subjects paypal, inc. to reporting requirements, bonding requirements, limitations on the investment of customer funds and inspection by state regulatory agencies. outside the u.s., we provide localized versions of our service to customers through various foreign subsidiaries. the activities of those non-u.s. entities are, or may be, supervised by a financial regulatory authority in the jurisdictions in which they operate. among other regulatory authorities, the luxembourg commission de surveillance du secteur financier (the cssf ), the australian securities and investment commission, the monetary authority of singapore, the reserve bank of india, and the central bank of russia have asserted jurisdiction over some or all of our activities in country. this list is not exhaustive, as there are numerous other regulatory agencies that have or may assert jurisdiction over our activities. the laws and regulations applicable to the payments industry in any given jurisdiction are subject to interpretation and change. banking agency supervision . we serve our customers in the european union through paypal (europe) s. .r.l. et cie, sca, a wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in luxembourg by the cssf. consequently, we must comply with rules and regulations of the banking industry, including those related to capitalization, funds management, corporate governance, anti-money laundering, disclosure, reporting and inspection. we also are, or may be, subject to banking-related regulations in other countries now or in the future related to our role in the financial industry. in addition, based on our relationships with our partner financial institutions, we are, or may be, subject to indirect regulation and examination by these financial institutions' regulators. consumer financial protection bureau . the consumer financial protection bureau (the cfpb ) has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products in the united states, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products. as a large market participant of remittance transfers, the cfpb has direct supervisory authority over our business. the cfpb and other similar regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions may have broad consumer protection mandates that could result in the promulgation and interpretation of rules and regulations that may affect our business. anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing. paypal is subject to anti-money laundering ( aml ) laws and regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions, as well as laws designed to prevent the use of the financial systems to facilitate terrorist activities. our aml program is designed to prevent our payment network from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit activities, or to do business in countries or with persons and entities included on designated country or person lists promulgated by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets controls ( ofac ) and equivalent authorities in other countries. our aml compliance program, overseen by our aml/bank secrecy act officer, is composed of policies, procedures and internal controls, and is designed to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks. interchange fees. interchange fees associated with four-party payments systems are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions. for example, in the european union ("eu"), the multilateral interchange fee ( mif ) regulation caps credit and debit interchange fees for cards payments and provides for business rules to be complied with by any company dealing with card 9 table of contents transactions, including paypal. as a result, the fees that we collect in certain jurisdictions may become the subject of regulatory challenge. data protection and information security. aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy and data protection regulation in the united states ("u.s."), the eu and elsewhere. for example, the eu has adopted a comprehensive general data protection regulation (the "gdpr"), which comes into effect in may 2018 and expands the scope of the eu data protection law to all foreign companies processing personal data of eu residents, imposes a strict data protection compliance regime, and includes new rights. in the united states, we are subject to information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act that require the maintenance of a written, comprehensive information security program and in europe, the operations of our luxembourg bank are subject to information safeguarding requirements under the luxembourg banking act, among other laws. regulatory authorities around the world are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy and data protection. in addition, the interpretation and application of these privacy and data protection laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in a state of flux. anti-corruption. paypal is subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, and similar anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving, accepting or authorizing others to provide anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to or from a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. we have implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with these laws and regulations. additional regulatory developments. various regulatory agencies continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including virtual currencies, identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that may impact paypal's business. for an additional discussion on governmental regulation affecting our business, please see the risk factors related to regulation of our payments business and regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security in item 1a. risk factors under the caption risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and item 3. legal proceedings included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. seasonality the company does not experience meaningful seasonality with respect to net revenues. no individual quarter in 2017 , 2016 or 2015 accounted for more than 30% of annual net revenue. financial information about segments we operate in one business segment and have one reportable segment. see note 11 segment and geographical information to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for additional information including certain financial information about our operations in the u.s. and internationally. additionally, please see the information in item 1a. risk factors under the caption our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business, which describes risks associated with our foreign operations. employees as of december 31, 2017, we employed approximately 18,700 people globally, of whom approximately 10,600 were located in the u.s. we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. separation from ebay inc. paypal holdings, inc. was incorporated in delaware in january 2015 for the purpose of owning and operating ebay's payments business in connection with the separation and distribution described below. prior to the contribution of this business to paypal holdings, inc., which occurred prior to the distribution in july 2015, paypal holdings, inc. had no operations. on july 17, 2015 (the distribution date ), paypal became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by ebay of 100% of the outstanding common stock of paypal to ebay stockholders (which we refer to as the separation or the distribution ). each ebay stockholder of record as of the close of business on july 8, 2015 received one share of paypal common stock for every share of ebay common stock held on the record date. approximately 1.2 billion shares of paypal common stock were distributed on july 17, 2015 to ebay stockholders. paypal's common stock began regular way trading under the ticker symbol pypl on 10 table of contents the nasdaq stock market on july 20, 2015. prior to the separation, ebay transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities and operations of ebay's payments business to paypal, which was completed in june 2015. available information the address of our principal executive offices is paypal holdings, inc., 2211 north first street, san jose, california 95131. our website is located at www.paypal.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investor.paypal-corp.com. from time to time, we may use our investor relations site and other online and social media channels, including our paypal stories blog (https://www.paypal.com/stories/us), twitter handle (@paypal), linkedin page (https://www.linkedin.com/company/paypal), facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/paypalusa/), youtube channel (https://www.youtube.com/paypal), dan schulman's linkedin profile (https://www.linkedin.com/in/dan-schulman/) and dan schulman's facebook profile (https://www.facebook.com/danschulmanpaypal/) to disclose material non-public information and comply with our disclosure obligations under regulation fair disclosure. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. the content of our websites and information that we may post on or provide to online and social media channels, including those mentioned above, and information that can be accessed through our websites or these online and social media channels is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k or in any other report or document we file with the sec, and any references to our websites or these online and social media channels are intended to be inactive textual references only. item 1a. risk factors the following discussion is divided into three sections. the first section, which begins immediately following this paragraph, discusses some of the risks that may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the second section, captioned risks related to the separation and our operation as an independent publicly traded company, discusses some of the risks relating to our separation into an independent publicly traded company. the third section, captioned risks related to our common stock, discusses some of the risks relating to an investment in our common stock. you should carefully review all of these sections for important information regarding risks and uncertainties that affect us, in addition to the other information appearing in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may harm our business. the global payments industry is highly competitive, and we compete against a wide range of businesses, some of which are larger than we are, have a dominant and secure position, or offer other products and services to consumers and merchants that we do not offer. the global payments industry is rapidly changing, highly innovative and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny. many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. competition may also intensify as businesses against which we compete or merchants enter into business combinations and alliances, and established companies in other segments expand to become competitive with our business. we compete against a wide range of businesses with varying roles in all forms of payments, including: paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks); providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit and debit cards and automated clearing house transactions (in particular, well-established banks); payment networks which facilitate payments for credit card users; providers of digital wallets which offer customers the ability to pay online and/or in-store through a variety of payment methods, including with mobile applications, through contactless payments, and with a variety of payment cards; providers of mobile payments solutions that use tokenized card data approaches and contactless payments (e.g., near field communication ("nfc") or host card emulation functionality) to eliminate the need to swipe or insert a card or enter a personal identification number or password; 11 table of contents payment-card processors that offer their services to merchants, including for card on file payments where the merchant invites the consumer to select a payment method for their first transaction and to use the same payment method for subsequent transactions; providers of person-to-person payments that facilitate individuals sending money with an email address or mobile phone number; merchants and merchant associations providing proprietary payment networks to facilitate payments within their own retail network; money remitters; providers of card readers for mobile devices and of other point-of-sale and multi-channel technologies; and providers of virtual currencies and distributed ledger technologies. we often partner with many of these businesses and we consider the ability to continue establishing these partnerships as important to our business. competition for relationships with these partners is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to establish, grow or maintain these partner relationships. we also face competition and potential competition from: service providers that provide online merchants the ability to offer their customers the option of paying for purchases from their bank account or paying on credit; issuers of stored value targeted at online payments; other global online and mobile payment-services providers; other providers of online and mobile account-based payments; services targeting users of social networks and online gaming, including those offering social commerce and peer-to-peer payments; mobile payment services between bank accounts; payment services enabling banking customers to send and receive payments through their bank account, including through immediate or real-time payments systems; ecommerce services that provide special offers linked to a specific payment provider; services that help merchants accept and manage virtual currencies; and electronic funds transfer services as a method of payment for both online and offline transactions. some of these competitors have larger customer bases, volume, scale, resources, and market share than we do, which may provide significant competitive advantages. some of our competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, and other regulatory requirements. they may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services, and they may offer lower prices or more effectively introduce their own innovative programs, products and services that adversely impact our growth. we compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain and engage both merchants and consumers; ability to demonstrate that merchants will achieve incremental sales by offering paypal services; consumer confidence in safety and security of transactions on our payments platform, including the ability for consumers to use paypal products and services without sharing their financial information with the merchant or the party they are paying; simplicity of our fee structure; ability to develop services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments and payments at the retail point of sale; trust in our dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service; brand recognition; website, mobile platform and application onboarding, ease-of-use, speed, availability, and dependability; the technology- and payment-agnostic nature of our payments platform; system reliability and data security; ease and quality of integration into third-party mobile applications and operating systems; and quality of developer tools, such as our application programming interfaces and software development kits. if we are not able to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors, drive value for our customers, or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against our competitors. 12 table of contents our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely harm our business. substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come primarily from transactions involving payments during that quarter, which may result in significant fluctuations in our operating results that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock. substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come primarily from transactions involving payments during that quarter. as a result, our operating and financial results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history, and may continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including as a result of the risks set forth in this risk factors section. it is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings accurately. in view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast expenses as a percentage of net revenues. quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of net revenues reflected in our financial statements may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. the trading price of our common stock may decline significantly as a result of the factors described in this paragraph. global and regional economic conditions could harm our business. our operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions. uncertainty about global and regional economic events and conditions may result in consumers and businesses postponing or lowering spending in response to tighter credit, higher unemployment, financial market volatility, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, government austerity programs, negative financial news, declines in income or asset values, and other factors. these and other global and regional economic events and conditions could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and services, including a reduction in the volume and size of transactions on our payments platform. in addition, any financial turmoil affecting the banking system or financial markets could cause additional consolidation of the financial services industry, significant financial service institution failures, new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility or distress in the fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. if we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative products and services, the use of our products and services and, consequently, our revenues could decline. rapid, significant, and disruptive technological changes impact the industries in which we operate, including developments in payment card tokenization, mobile, social commerce (i.e., ecommerce through social networks), authentication, virtual currencies (including distributed ledger technologies), and nfc and other proximity payment devices, such as contactless payments. we cannot predict the effects of technological changes on our business. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge and may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. developing and incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures, take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. in addition, our ability to adopt new products and services and to develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, payments networks, changes to laws and regulations, resistance to change from consumers or merchants, third-party intellectual property rights, or other factors. our success will depend on our ability to develop and incorporate new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards; if we are unable to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. changes in how consumers fund their paypal transactions could harm our business. we pay transaction fees when consumers fund payment transactions using credit cards, lower fees when consumers fund payments with debit cards, and nominal fees when consumers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, or from an existing paypal account balance or through our paypal credit products. our financial success is sensitive to changes in the rate at which our consumers fund payments using credit and debit cards (collectively, payment cards ), which can significantly increase our costs. although we provide consumers with the opportunity to use their existing paypal account balance to fund payment transactions, some of our consumers may prefer to use payment cards, especially if these payment cards offer features and benefits that are not provided as part of their paypal accounts. an increase in the portion of our payment volume funded using payment cards or in fees associated with our funding mix, or other events or developments that make it more difficult 13 table of contents or costly for us to fund transactions with lower-cost funding options, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business. we have entered into strategic partnerships with major payment card networks and/or issuing banks to promote greater consumer choice and make it easier for merchants to accept and consumers to pay with these partners' credit and/or debt cards and to allow us to gain access to these partners' tokenization services for in-store point of sale paypal transactions. these arrangements may have an uncertain impact on our business. while we anticipate that these and similar strategic partnerships we may enter into in the future will result in an increase in the number of transactions and transaction volume that we process, we also anticipate that a greater percentage of customer transactions will be executed using a payment card, which would likely increase the transaction costs associated with our funding mix, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our business is subject to cyberattacks and security and privacy breaches. our business involves the collection, storage, processing and transmission of customers' personal data, including financial information and information about how they interact with our payments platform. in addition, a significant number of our customers authorize us to bill their payment card or bank accounts directly for all transaction and other fees charged by us. we have built our reputation on the premise that our payments platform offers customers a more secure way to make payments. an increasing number of organizations, including large merchants and businesses, other large technology companies, financial institutions, and government institutions, have disclosed breaches of their information security systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks, including on their websites and infrastructure. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized, improper or illegal access to our systems, our data or customers' data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly evolving, may be difficult to detect quickly, and often are not recognized until launched against a target. unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including hacking into our systems or facilities or those of our customers, partners or vendors, or attempting to fraudulently induce (often through spear phishing attacks) our employees, customers, partners, vendors or other users of our systems into disclosing user names, passwords, payment card information, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. certain efforts may be state-sponsored and supported by significant financial and technological resources, making them even more sophisticated and difficult to detect. we believe that paypal is a particularly attractive target for such breaches and attacks due to our name and brand recognition and the widespread adoption and use of our products and services. although we have developed systems and processes designed to protect our data and customer data and to prevent data loss and other security breaches, and expect to continue to expend significant resources to bolster these protections, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security breaches, and third parties may be able to access our customers' personal or proprietary information and payment card data that are stored on or accessible through those systems. our security measures may also be breached due to human error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, or other irregularities. actual or perceived breaches of our security could interrupt our operations, result in our systems or services being unavailable, result in improper disclosure of data, materially harm our reputation and brands, result in significant regulatory scrutiny and legal and financial exposure, cause us to incur significant remediation costs, lead to loss of customer confidence in, or decreased use of, our products and services, divert the attention of management from the operation of our business, result in significant compensation or contractual penalties from us to our customers and their business partners as a result of losses to them or claims by them, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. in addition, any cyberattacks or data security breaches affecting companies that we acquire or our customers, partners or vendors (including data center and cloud computing providers) could have similar negative effects. see note 3 "business combinations," note 4 "goodwill and intangible assets" and note 13 "commitments and contingencies" to our consolidated financial statements for disclosure relating to the suspension of operations of tio networks ("tio") (which we acquired in july 2017) as part of an ongoing investigation of security vulnerability of the tio platform. actual or perceived vulnerabilities or data breaches have led and may lead to claims against us. in addition, under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, or that is stored by our direct payment card processing customers, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. we also expect to expend significant additional resources to protect against security or privacy breaches, and may be required to redress problems caused by breaches. financial services regulators in various jurisdictions, including the u.s. and the eu, have implemented authentication requirements for banks and payment processors intended to reduce online fraud, which could impose significant costs, require us to change our business practices, make it more difficult for new customers to join paypal, and reduce the ease of use of our products, which could harm our business. additionally, while we maintain insurance policies, they may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. 14 table of contents systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business. our systems and those of our services providers and partners may experience service interruptions or degradation because of hardware and software defects or malfunctions, computer denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. our systems also may be subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. in addition, as a provider of payments solutions, we are subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators that may require specific business continuity, resiliency and disaster recovery plans, and more rigorous testing of such plans, which may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our resources from other business priorities. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience system failures, denial of service attacks, and other events or conditions from time to time that interrupt the availability, or reduce or adversely affect the speed or functionality of our products and services. these events have resulted and likely will result in loss of revenue. a prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the availability, speed or functionality of our products and services could materially harm our business. frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential customers to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid or reduce the use of our products and services, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. moreover, if any system failure or similar event results in damages to our customers or their business partners, these customers or partners could seek significant compensation or contractual penalties from us for their losses, and those claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address, and could have other consequences described in this risk factors section under the caption our business is subject to cyberattacks and security and privacy breaches. our payments platform has experienced and may in the future experience intermittent unavailability. the full-time availability and expeditious delivery of our products and services is critical to our goal of gaining widespread acceptance among consumers and merchants for digital payments. we have undertaken certain system upgrades and re-platforming efforts designed to improve our reliability and speed. these efforts are costly and time-consuming, involve significant technical risk and may divert our resources from new features and products, and there can be no guarantee that these efforts will succeed. because we are a regulated financial institution in certain jurisdictions, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to regulatory scrutiny, significant fines and penalties, and mandatory and costly changes to our business practices, and ultimately could cause us to lose existing licenses that we need to operate or prevent or delay us from obtaining additional licenses that may be required for our business. we also rely on facilities, components and services supplied by third parties, including data center facilities and cloud storage services. if these third parties cease to provide the facilities or services, experience operational interference or disruptions, breach their agreements with us, or fail to perform their obligations and meet our expectations, our operations could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which could result in customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation and brands, and materially and adversely affect our business. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for all losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. in addition, we are continually improving and upgrading our information systems and technologies. implementation of new systems and technologies is complex, expensive and time-consuming. if we fail to timely and successfully implement new information systems and technologies, or improvements or upgrades to existing information systems and technologies, or if such systems and technologies do not operate as intended, this could have an adverse impact on our business, internal controls (including internal controls over financial reporting), results of operations and financial condition. changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm our business. we rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions and pay fees for the services. from time to time, payment card networks have increased, and may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction that accesses their networks. payment card networks have or may impose special fees or assessments for transactions that are executed through a digital wallet such as paypal's, which could particularly impact us and significantly increase our costs. our payment card processors may have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to us as well as increase their own fees for processing. any changes in interchange fees and assessments could increase our operating costs and reduce our operating income. we have entered into strategic partnerships with visa and mastercard to further expand our relationships in a way that will make it easier for merchants to accept and consumers to choose to pay with visa and mastercard credit and debit cards. during the terms of these agreements, visa and mastercard have each agreed to not enact or impose any fees or rules that solely target paypal. upon termination of the agreements, paypal could become subject to special digital wallet fees or other special assessments. 15 table of contents in addition, in some jurisdictions, governmental regulations have required payment card networks to reduce interchange fees. any material change in credit or debit card interchange rates in the u.s. or other markets, including as a result of changes in interchange fee limitations, could adversely affect our competitive position against traditional credit and debit card service providers and our business. we are required by our processors to comply with payment card network operating rules, including special operating rules for payment service providers to merchants. we have agreed to reimburse our processors for any fines they are assessed by payment card networks as a result of any rule violations by us or our merchants. the payment card networks set and interpret the card operating rules. from time to time, the networks have alleged that various aspects of our business model violate these operating rules. if such allegations are not resolved favorably, they may result in significant fines and penalties or require changes in our business practices that may be costly. the payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or re-interpret existing rules that we or our processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or costly to implement. as a result, we could lose our ability to give consumers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or the choice of currency in which they would like their payment card to be charged. if we are unable to accept payment cards or are limited in our ability to do so, our business would be adversely affected. we and our payment card processors have implemented specific business processes for merchants to comply with payment card network operating rules for providing services to merchants. any failure to comply with these rules could result in fines. we are also subject to fines from payment card networks if we fail to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or that are considered high risk, including the sale of certain types of digital content. for high risk merchants, we must either prevent such merchants from using paypal services or register such merchants with the payment card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. although the amount of these fines has not been material to date, additional fines in the future could become significant and could result in a termination of our ability to accept payment cards or require changes in our process for registering new customers, which would adversely affect our business. payment card network rules may also increase the cost of, impose restrictions on, or otherwise negatively impact the development of, our retail point-of-sale solutions, which may negatively impact their deployment and adoption. failure to deal effectively with fraud, fictitious transactions, bad transactions, and negative customer experiences would increase our loss rate and harm our business, and could severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services. in the event that merchants do not fulfill their obligations to consumers or a merchant's goods or services do not match the merchant's description, we may incur substantial losses as a result of claims from consumers. we seek to recover such losses from the merchant, but may not be able to recover in full if the merchant is unwilling or unable to pay. in addition, in the event of the bankruptcy or other business interruption of a merchant that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (e.g., airline, cruise or concert tickets, custom-made goods and subscriptions), we could be liable to the buyers of such goods or services, either through our buyer protection program or through chargebacks on payment cards used by customers to fund their payment. while we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may be insufficient. we also incur substantial losses from claims that the consumer did not authorize the purchase, from customer fraud, from erroneous transactions, and as a result of customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in their bank accounts to satisfy payments. in addition, if losses incurred by us related to payment card transactions become excessive, they could potentially result in our losing the right to accept payment cards for payment, which would harm our business. we have taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against fraud, particularly new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. if these measures do not succeed, our business could be harmed. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, including the british pound, euro, australian dollar and canadian dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency risk. the strengthening or weakening of the u.s. dollar versus the british pound, euro, australian dollar, and canadian dollar impacts the translation of our net revenues generated in these foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. in connection with providing our services in multiple currencies, we may face financial exposure if we incorrectly set our foreign exchange rates or as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the times that we set them. given that we also hold some corporate and customer funds in non-u.s. currencies, our financial results are affected by the remeasurement of these non-u.s. currencies into u.s. dollars. we also have foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. while we regularly enter into transactions to hedge foreign currency risk for portions of our foreign currency translation and balance sheet exposure, it is 16 table of contents impossible to predict or eliminate the effects of this exposure. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could materially and adversely impact our financial results. any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business. cross-border trade (i.e., transactions where the merchant and consumer are in different countries) is an important source of our revenue and profits. cross-border transactions generally provide higher revenues and operating income than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. cross-border trade also represents our primary (and in some cases, our only) presence in certain important markets. cross-border trade is subject to, and may be negatively impacted by, foreign exchange rate fluctuations. in addition, the interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the merchant and of the consumer) are often extremely complicated in the context of cross-border trade. changes to or the interpretation and/or application of laws and regulations applicable to cross-border trade could impose additional requirements and restrictions, impose conflicting obligations, and increase the costs associated with cross-border trade. any factors that increase the costs of cross-border trade for us or our customers or that restrict, delay, or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical would lower our revenues and profits and could harm our business. the united kingdom's departure from the eu could adversely affect us. the united kingdom ( u.k. ) held a referendum in june 2016 in which a majority of voters approved an exit from the eu ( brexit ). in march 2017, the u.k. invoked article 50 of the treaty on european union, which triggered a two-year period, with extension subject to unanimous consent by the other eu member states, during which the u.k. government will negotiate its withdrawal agreement with the eu. brexit could adversely affect u.k., regional (including european), and worldwide economic and market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the british pound and euro, which in turn could adversely affect our customers and companies with which we do business, particularly in the u.k. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and see national laws and regulations in the u.k. diverge from eu laws and regulations, as the u.k. determines which eu laws to replace or replicate. in particular, depending on the terms of brexit, we may face new regulatory costs and challenges, including the following: we could lose our ability for our eu operations to offer services on a cross-border basis into the u.k. market utilizing regulatory permissions of paypal (europe) s. r.l. et cie, sca ( paypal (europe) ), our wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a credit institution in luxembourg, and our corresponding ability to work with the luxembourg regulators as the lead authority for various aspects of our u.k. operations; we could be required to obtain additional regulatory permissions to operate in the u.k. market, adding costs and potential inconsistency to our business (and, depending on the capacity of the u.k. authorities, the criteria for obtaining permission, and any possible transitional arrangements, there is a risk that our business in the u.k. could be materially affected or disrupted); we could be required to comply with regulatory requirements in the u.k. that are in addition to, or inconsistent with, the regulatory requirements of the eu; and our ability to attract and retain the necessary human resources in appropriate locations to support the u.k. business and the eu business of paypal could be adversely impacted. any of the effects of brexit described above and others that we cannot anticipate could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight, as well as extensive, complex, overlapping and frequently changing rules, regulations and legal interpretations. our business is subject to laws, rules, regulations, policies, and legal interpretations in the markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, those governing banking, credit, deposit taking, cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange, privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, banking secrecy, payment services (including payment processing and settlement services), consumer protection, economic and trade sanctions, anti-money laundering, and counter-terrorist financing. the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to us are extensive, complex, frequently changing, and increasing in number, and may impose overlapping and/or conflicting requirements or obligations. financial and political events have increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on the payments industry, and regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our business. 17 table of contents our success and increased visibility may result in increased regulatory oversight and tighter enforcement of rules and regulations that may apply to our business. as we expand and localize our international activities, we are increasingly becoming obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. in addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and provide services to customers worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our customers are required to comply with their laws. laws regulating the internet, mobile and related technologies outside of the u.s. often impose different, more specific, or even conflicting obligations on us, as well as broader liability. for example, certain transactions that may be permissible in a local jurisdiction may be prohibited by regulations of u.s. department of treasury's office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) or u.s. anti-money laundering or counter-terrorist financing regulations. any failure or perceived failure to comply with existing or new laws, regulations or orders of any governmental authority (including changes to or expansion of the interpretation of those laws, regulations or orders), including those discussed in this risk factor, may subject us to significant fines, penalties, criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, and enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions, result in additional compliance and licensure requirements, increase regulatory scrutiny of our business, restrict our operations, and force us to change our business practices, make product or operational changes or delay planned product launches or improvements. any of the foregoing could, individually or in the aggregate, damage our brands and business, and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the complexity of u.s. federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes, coupled with the global scope of our operations and the evolving global regulatory environment, could result in a single event giving rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and legal and regulatory proceedings by multiple government authorities in different jurisdictions. we have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws, and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations. payments regulation in the u.s., paypal, inc. has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent) in the states where it is required, as well as in the district of columbia, the u.s. virgin islands and puerto rico. these licenses include not only the paypal branded products and services in these states, but also our braintree, venmo, xoom and tio branded products and services. as a licensed money transmitter, paypal is subject to restrictions with respect to the investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements and inspection by state regulatory agencies. accordingly, if we violate these laws or regulations, we could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change our business practices or required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals, which could impose substantial costs. while we currently allow our customers with payment cards to send payments from approximately 200 markets, we allow customers in only approximately half of those markets (including the u.s.) to also receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can withdraw funds. these limitations may adversely affect our ability to grow our business in these markets. we provide our services to customers in the eu through paypal (europe), our wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a credit institution in luxembourg. accordingly, paypal (europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, fund management, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, information security, banking secrecy, taxation, sanctions, or other requirements imposed on luxembourg banks. in addition, eu laws and regulations are typically subject to different and potentially inconsistent interpretations by the countries that are members of the eu, which can make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. moreover, the countries that are eu members may each have different and potentially inconsistent domestic regulations implementing european directives, including the eu payment services directive and the e-money directive, which could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. the revised payment services directive ( psd2 ) entered into force in january 2016 and is in the process of being implemented into national legislation, with certain requirements effective january 13, 2018. the implementation of the psd2 may negatively affect our business. psd2 seeks to enable new payment models whereby a newly formed category of regulated payment provider would be able to access bank and payment accounts (including paypal accounts) for the purposes of accessing account information or initiating a payment on behalf of a customer. such access could subject us to data security and other legal and financial risks and could create new competitive forces and new types of competitors in the european payments market. psd2 seeks to regulate more online platforms that handle payments for their sellers. paypal merchants with affected business models which are not licensed, or which do not benefit from exemptions or integrate a compliant marketplaces solution may not be able to offer paypal products in the future. psd2 also imposes new standards for payment security and strong customer authentication that may make it more difficult and time consuming to carry out a paypal transaction, which may adversely impact paypal's customer value proposition and its european business. 18 table of contents finally, if the business activities of paypal (europe) exceed certain thresholds, or if the european central bank ( ecb ) determines that paypal (europe) is a significant supervised entity or that some activity of paypal (europe) is deemed subject to oversight by the ecb, paypal (europe) could become directly regulated by the ecb in addition to the luxembourg regulator, the commission de surveillance du secteur financier (the "cssf"), as its national supervisor, which could subject us to additional requirements and would likely increase compliance costs. in australia, we serve our customers through paypal australia pty. ltd. ( paypal australia ), which is licensed by the australian securities and investments commission as a provider of a non-cash payment product and by the australian prudential regulation authority as a purchased payment facility provider, which is a type of authorized depository institution. accordingly, paypal australia is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the product disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capital requirements, privacy, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on australian depository institutions. in hong kong, we serve our customers through paypal hong kong limited ( paypal hong kong ), which is licensed by the hong kong monetary authority as an issuer of stored value facility ( svf licensee ). accordingly, paypal hong kong is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the reporting, anti-money laundering, capital requirements, privacy, corporate governance, risk management, float management, and/or any other requirements imposed on svf licensees. in many of the other markets in which we do business, we serve our customers through paypal pte. ltd., our wholly-owned subsidiary based in singapore. paypal pte. ltd. is supervised by the monetary authority of singapore and designated as a holder of a stored value facility, but does not hold a remittance license. as a result, paypal pte. ltd. is not able to offer outbound remittance payments (including donations to charities) from singapore, and can only offer payments for the purchase of goods and services in singapore. in many of the markets (other than singapore) served by paypal pte. ltd., it is unclear and uncertain whether our singapore-based service is subject only to singapore law or, if it is subject to the application of local laws, whether such local laws would require a payment processor like us to be licensed as a payments service, bank, financial institution or otherwise. we are also subject to regulation in other markets in which we do business, and we have been and expect to continue to be required to apply for various licenses, certifications and regulatory approvals in a number of the countries where we provide our services. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such licenses, certifications, and approvals. in addition, there are substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining such licenses, certifications, and approvals, and we could be subject to fines or other enforcement action if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance or other requirements of such licenses. these factors could impose substantial additional costs and involve considerable delay to the development or provision of our products or services, or could require significant and costly operational changes or prevent us from providing our products or services in a given market. in many countries, it may not be clear whether we are required to be licensed as a payment services provider, bank, financial institution or otherwise. in such markets, we may rely on local banks to process payments and conduct foreign exchange transactions in local currency. local regulators may use their power to slow or halt payments to local merchants conducted through local banks or otherwise prohibit us from doing business in a country. such regulatory actions or the need to obtain licenses, certifications or other regulatory approvals could impose substantial costs, involve considerable delay to the provision or development of our services, require significant and costly operational changes, impose restrictions, limitations, or additional requirements on our business, or prevent us from providing any products or services in a given market. consumer protection the financial services sector is subject to significant regulation and we are subject to consumer protection laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. in the u.s., we are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations applicable to our activities, including the electronic fund transfer act ( efta ) and regulation e as implemented by the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ). these regulations require us to provide advance disclosure of changes to our services, follow specified error resolution procedures, and reimburse consumers for losses from certain transactions not authorized by the consumer, among other requirements. additionally, technical violations of consumer protection laws could result in the assessment of actual damages or statutory damages or penalties of up to $1,000 in individual cases or up to $500,000 per violation in any class action and treble damages in some instances; we could also be liable for plaintiffs' attorneys' fees in such cases. we are subject to, and have paid amounts in settlement of, lawsuits containing allegations that our business violated the efta and regulation e or otherwise advance claims for relief relating to our business practices (e.g., that we improperly held consumer funds or otherwise improperly limited consumer accounts). in october 2016, the cfpb issued a final rule on prepaid accounts. the rule's definition of prepaid account includes certain accounts that are capable of being loaded with funds and whose primary function is to conduct transactions with multiple, 19 table of contents unaffiliated merchants, at atms and/or for person-to-person transfers, including certain digital wallets. the rule's requirements include: the disclosure of fees and other information to the consumer prior to the creation of a prepaid account; the extension of regulation e liability limits and error-resolution requirements to all prepaid accounts; the application of regulation z credit card requirements to prepaid accounts with overdraft and credit features; and the submission of prepaid account agreements to the cfpb and their publication to the general public. in april 2017, the cfpb delayed the effective date of the final rule on prepaid accounts to april 1, 2018, and indicated that it would review, among other issues, the linking of credit cards to digital wallets that are capable of storing funds. in june 2017, the cfpb released proposed changes to its final rule, and in january 2018, the cfpb issued its final rule,with an effective date of april 1, 2019. we are evaluating the final rule and its requirements. implementation of the rule could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices and the design of certain products, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business. in may 2015, we entered into a stipulated final judgment and consent order ( consent order ) with the cfpb in which we settled regulatory claims arising from paypal credit practices between 2011 and 2015. the consent order included obligations on paypal to pay $15 million in redress to consumers and a $10 million civil monetary penalty, and required paypal to make various changes to paypal credit disclosures and related business practices. we continue to cooperate and engage with the cfpb and work to ensure compliance with the consent order, which may result in us incurring additional costs. paypal (europe) principally offers its services in eu countries through a passport notification process through the luxembourg regulator to regulators in other eu member states pursuant to eu regulation. regulators in these countries could notify paypal (europe) of local consumer protection laws that apply to its business, in addition to luxembourg consumer protection law, and could also seek to persuade the luxembourg regulator to order paypal (europe) to conduct its or the paypal group's activities in the local country directly or through a branch office. these or similar actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, our plans to expand our business in eu countries. economic and trade sanctions we are required to comply with u.s. economic and trade sanctions administered by ofac. we have self-reported to ofac certain transactions that were inadvertently processed but subsequently identified as possible violations of u.s. economic and trade sanctions. in march 2015, we reached a settlement with ofac regarding possible violations arising from our sanctions compliance practices between 2009 and 2013, prior to the implementation of our real-time transaction scanning program. subsequently, we have self-reported additional transactions as possible violations, and we have received new subpoenas from ofac seeking additional information about certain of these transactions. such self-reported transactions could result in claims or actions against us, including litigation, injunctions, damage awards, fines or penalties, or require us to change our business practices in a manner that could result in a material loss, require significant management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources or otherwise harm our business. furthermore, compliance with economic and trade sanctions in force in one jurisdiction may conflict with the laws and regulations of other jurisdictions in which we operate and can expose us to the risk of fines, sanctions and penalties. anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing we are subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, our involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. u.s. and other regulators globally continue to increase their scrutiny of compliance with these obligations, which may require us to further revise or expand our compliance program, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of our customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. many countries in which we operate also have anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and we have been and will continue to be required to make changes to our compliance program in various jurisdictions in response. regulators regularly re-examine the transaction volume thresholds at which we must obtain and keep applicable records or verify identities of customers and any change in such thresholds could result in greater costs for compliance. in the eu, the implementation of the fourth anti-money laundering directive and the regulation on information accompanying transfer of funds (commonly known as the revised wire transfer regulation) are expected to make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage, lead to increased friction for customers, and result in a decrease in business. as of december 2017, paypal (europe)'s home state, luxembourg, had not yet implemented all of the provisions of the fourth anti-money laundering directive and there is uncertainty as to the exact requirements with which paypal (europe) will be required to comply. penalties for non-compliance with the fourth anti-money laundering directive could include fines of up to 10% of paypal (europe)'s total annual turnover. eu institutions are also proposing changes to the fourth anti-money laundering directive which could be even more stringent. 20 table of contents privacy and protection of user data we are subject to a number of laws, rules, directives and regulations (which we refer to as privacy laws ) relating to the collection, use, retention, security, processing and transfer (which we refer to as process ) of personally identifiable information about our customers and employees (which we refer to as personal data ) in the countries where we operate. much of the personal data that we process, especially financial information, is regulated by multiple privacy laws and, in some cases, the privacy laws of multiple jurisdictions. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between or among us, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relationships. regulatory scrutiny of privacy, data protection, and the collection, use and sharing of data is increasing around the world. there is uncertainty associated with the legal and regulatory environment relating to privacy and data protection laws, which continue to develop in ways we cannot predict, including with respect to evolving technologies such as cloud computing. privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and impose inconsistent or conflicting requirements. complying with varying jurisdictional requirements could increase the costs and complexity of compliance or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business, and violations of privacy and data protection-related laws may expose us to significant damage awards, fines and other penalties that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business and reputation. in addition, compliance with inconsistent privacy laws may restrict our ability to provide products and services to our customers. paypal relies on a variety of compliance methods to transfer personal data of eu citizens to the u.s., including reliance on binding corporate rules ( bcrs ) for internal transfers of certain types of personal data and standard contractual clauses ( sccs ) as approved by the european commission for transfers to and from third parties. paypal must also ensure that third parties processing personal data of paypal's eu customers and/or employees outside of the eu have compliant transfer mechanisms. in october 2015, the european court of justice invalidated u.s.-eu safe harbor framework clauses that were previously relied upon by some paypal vendors to lawfully transfer personal data of eu citizens to u.s. companies, and paypal entered into sccs with those third parties who had previously relied on the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework. in july 2016, the u.s. and eu authorities agreed on a replacement for safe harbor known as privacy shield. both the privacy shield framework and sccs are facing legal challenges in the european justice system. to the extent that the privacy shield or sccs are invalidated, paypal's ability to process eu personal data with third parties outside of the eu could be jeopardized. in 2016, the eu adopted a comprehensive overhaul of its data protection regime from the current national legislative approach to a single european economic area privacy regulation, the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which comes into effect in may 2018. the proposed eu data protection regime expands the scope of the eu data protection law to all foreign companies processing personal data of eu residents, imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with severe penalties of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide turnover and 20 million, and includes new rights such as the portability of personal data. although the gdpr will apply across the eu without a need for local implementing legislation, local data protection authorities ( dpas ) will still have the ability to interpret the gdpr through so-called opening clauses, which permit region-specific data protection legislation and have the potential to create inconsistencies on a country-by-country basis. we are evaluating the rule and its requirements. implementation of the gdpr could require us to change our business practices and increase the costs and complexity of compliance. paypal also faces additional potential challenges from local dpas. because paypal (europe) is headquartered in luxembourg and subject to regulation as a bank in that jurisdiction, we have relied on the one-stop-shop concept under which luxembourg has been our lead data protection regulator in the eu. however, a 2015 european court of justice ruling (weltimmo) affecting companies that do business in the eu potentially could make us subject to the local data protection laws or regulatory enforcement activities of the various eu member states in which we have established legal entities and which apply privacy laws that are different than, and may conflict with, luxembourg privacy laws. in addition, because of the large number of text messages, emails, phone calls and other communications we send or make to our customers for various business purposes, communication-related privacy laws that provide a specified monetary damage award or fine for each violation could result in particularly significant damage awards or fines. for example, under the telephone consumer protection act ( tcpa ), in the u.s., plaintiffs may seek actual monetary loss or statutory damages of $500 per violation, whichever is greater, and courts may treble the damage award for willful or knowing violations. we have been, and may continue to be subject to lawsuits (including class-action lawsuits) containing allegations that our business violated the tcpa. these lawsuits seek damages (including statutory damages) and injunctive relief, among other remedies. given the large number of communications we send to our customers, a determination that there have been violations of the tcpa or other communications-based statutes could expose us to significant damage awards that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. 21 table of contents data protection, privacy and information security have become the subject of increasing public, media, regulatory and legislative concern. we post on our websites and applications our privacy policies and practices regarding the collection, use and disclosure of user data. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, with any applicable regulatory requirements or orders, or with privacy, data protection, information security or consumer protection-related laws and regulations in one or more jurisdictions could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, including class action privacy litigation in certain jurisdictions, subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase the costs and complexity of compliance, and adversely affect our business. as noted above, we are also subject to the possibility of security and privacy breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of privacy laws. if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their financial or performance obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the u.s. and abroad. as part of our currency hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments with various financial institutions. certain banks and financial institutions are also lenders under our credit facilities. we regularly monitor our exposure to counterparty credit risk, and actively manage this exposure to mitigate the associated risk. despite these efforts, we may be exposed to the risk of default by, or deteriorating operating results or financial condition or failure of, these counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default, deterioration or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to access or recover our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. paypal is not a bank or licensed lender in the u.s. and relies upon third parties to make loans and provide other products critical to our business. as paypal is neither a chartered financial institution nor licensed to make loans in any state in the u.s., we rely on a third-party chartered financial institution to issue the paypal credit consumer product in the u.s., and different chartered financial institutions to issue the paypal working capital product and other business loan products in the u.s. these chartered financial institutions are state chartered industrial banks. any termination or interruption in a partner bank's ability to lend could result in us being unable or unwilling to offer our consumer and business loan products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to issue our loan products in the u.s. and our business. in the event of a partner bank's inability or unwillingness to lend, we may need to reach a similar agreement with another chartered financial institution or obtain our own bank charter or lending licenses. we may be unable to reach a similar agreement with another partner on favorable terms or at all, and obtaining a bank charter or lending licenses would be a costly, time-consuming and uncertain process, subject us to additional laws and regulatory requirements, which could be burdensome, increase our costs and require us to change our business practices. in addition, as a service provider to these bank partners, which are federally supervised u.s. financial institutions, we are subject from time to time to examination by their federal banking regulators. a case decided in the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit, madden v. midland funding, llc (786 f.3d 246 (2d cir. 2015)), resulted in some uncertainty as to whether non-bank entities purchasing loans originated by a bank may rely on federal preemption of state usury laws, and may create an increased risk of litigation by plaintiffs challenging our ability to collect interest and fees in accordance with the terms of certain loans. although the decision specifically addressed preemption under the national bank act, this decision could support future challenges to federal preemption for other institutions, including fdic-insured, state chartered industrial banks like those that we rely on to issue our loan products in the u.s. after the madden decision, there continue to be a number of u.s. state and federal court legal actions challenging the viability of business models where a non-bank entity relies on a third party chartered financial institution in connection with the issuance of credit products. while we believe the manner in which we offer our credit products can be distinguished from madden , there can be no assurance as to the outcome of any potential litigation, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to issue our loan products in the u.s. and our business. on november 16, 2017, we announced an arrangement under which synchrony bank will acquire the u.s. consumer credit receivables portfolio held by us and certain of our affiliates, which totaled approximately $6.4 billion in receivables as of december 31, 2017. the purchase price is subject to a post-closing true-up and certain adjustments. the transaction is expected to be completed during the third quarter of 2018, subject to certain closing conditions. the transaction may not close within the expected timeframe or at all. even if the transaction is consummated, it may take us longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. under our expanded program agreement with synchrony bank, at the closing of the 22 table of contents consumer credit receivables portfolio sale, synchrony bank will become the exclusive issuer of the paypal credit online consumer financing program in the u.s. for a 10-year term, and we retain an option to designate a purchaser of the portfolio at the end of that term, our increased reliance on synchrony will subject us to risks in the nature of those discussed in this risk factors section under the caption "we rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, which creates additional risk." our credit products expose us to additional risks. we offer our paypal credit consumer product and paypal working capital and other business loan products to a wide range of consumers and merchants in various markets, and the financial success of these products depends on the effective management of related risk. the credit decisioning process for our paypal credit consumer product uses proprietary segmentation and credit algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of specific consumers based on their past purchasing and payment history with paypal as well as their credit scores. similarly proprietary risk models and other indicators are applied to assess merchants who wish to use our business loan products to help predict their ability to repay. these risk models may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer or merchant due to factors such as inaccurate assumptions, including assumptions related to the particular consumer or merchant, market conditions, economic environment or limited transaction history or other data, among other factors. the accuracy of these risk models and the ability to manage credit risk related to our credit products may also be affected by legal or regulatory requirements, competitors' actions, changes in consumer behavior, changes in the economic environment and other factors. our international expansion of our credit product offerings also exposes us to additional risks, including those discussed below under the risk factor titled our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business. like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from consumer and merchant credit, we face the risk that account holders will default on their payment obligations, creating the risk of potential charge-offs. the non-payment rate among account holders may increase due to, among other things, changes to underwriting standards, worsening economic conditions, such as a recession or government austerity programs, increases in prevailing interest rates, and high unemployment rates. account holders who miss payments often fail to repay their loans, and account holders who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their loans. we currently purchase receivables related to our credit products in the u.s. if we are unable to fund our purchase of these receivables adequately or in a cost-effective manner, or if we are unable to efficiently manage the cash resources utilized for these purposes, our business could be harmed. our business may be impacted by political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions. war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to the economy and commerce on a global or regional basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our customers, and companies with which we do business. our business operations are subject to interruption by, among others, natural disasters, fire, power shortages, earthquakes, floods, nuclear power plant accidents and other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues and other events beyond our control. such events could decrease demand for our products and services or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products and services to our customers. in the event of a natural disaster, we could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time and experience significant expenditures in order to resume or maintain operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes to our buyer and seller protection programs could increase our loss rate. our buyer and seller protection programs protect merchants and consumers from fraudulent transactions, and consumers if they do not receive the item ordered or if the item received is significantly different from its description. in 2015, we increased the scope of our buyer protection program to cover digital goods and intangible goods and services. in addition, consumers who pay through paypal may have reimbursement rights from their payment card issuer (usually a bank), which in turn will seek recovery from us. the risk of losses from our buyer and seller protection programs are specific to individual buyers, sellers and transactions, and may also be impacted by regional variations to these programs, modifications to these programs resulting from changes in regulatory requirements, or changes that we decide to implement, such as expanding the scope of transactions covered by one or more of these programs. upon paypal becoming an independent publicly traded company in july 2015, we extended our protection programs in several countries to cover certain customers' purchases on ebay, and our costs associated with these programs have therefore increased. increases in our loss rate, including as a result of changing our buyer and seller protection programs, could harm our business. 23 table of contents our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business. our international operations have generated approximately one-half of our net revenues in recent years. there are risks inherent in doing business internationally on both a domestic (i.e., in-country) and cross-border basis, including: foreign currency and cross-border trade risks discussed earlier in this risk factors section under the captions we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business ; risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws; local licensing and reporting obligations (e.g., data localization requirements); expenses associated with localizing our products and services, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency, and adapting our products and services to local preferences (e.g., payment methods) with which we may have limited or no experience; trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; stringent local labor laws and regulations; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange restrictions or extreme fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates for a particular currency; political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; geopolitical events, including natural disasters, public health issues, acts of war, and terrorism; import or export regulations; compliance with u.s. laws and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, and other local anticorruption laws; compliance with u.s. and foreign laws designed to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities; antitrust and competition regulations; potentially adverse tax developments and consequences; economic uncertainties relating to sovereign and other debt; national or regional differences in macroeconomic growth rates; different, uncertain, overlapping, or more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations; and increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. violations of the complex foreign and u.s. laws, rules and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. these risks are inherent in our international operations and expansion, may increase our costs of doing business internationally, and could harm our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. we are exposed to interest rate risk from our investment portfolio and from interest-rate sensitive assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our balance sheet as customer accounts. a low interest rate environment or reductions in interest rates may negatively impact our investment income and our net income. in addition, fluctuations in interest rates may adversely impact our customers' spending levels and ability and willingness to pay outstanding amounts owed to us. higher interest rates often lead to higher payment obligations by customers to us and other lenders under mortgage, credit card and other consumer and merchant loans, which may reduce our customers' ability to remain current on their obligations to us and therefore lead to increased delinquencies, charge-offs and allowance for loan and interest receivable which could have an adverse effect on our net income. we have entered into a revolving credit facility and a 364-day delayed-draw term loan credit facility. we have borrowed under these credit facilities from time to time, and any borrowings under these credit facilities bear interest at a floating rate, exposing us to interest rate fluctuations. 24 table of contents use of our payments services for illegal purposes could harm our business. our payment system is susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses, including money laundering, terrorist financing, illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illegal sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software, movies, music, and other copyrighted or trademarked goods (in particular, digital goods), bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, online securities fraud, or to facilitate other illegal activity. any use of our payment system for illegal or improper uses could subject us to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, and government and regulatory investigations, inquiries or requests that could result in liability and reputational harm for us. moreover, certain activity that may be legal in one country may be illegal in another country, and a merchant may intentionally or inadvertently be found responsible for importing or exporting illegal goods, resulting in liability for us. changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities, and government authorities may consider additional payments-related proposals from time to time. owners of intellectual property rights or government authorities may seek to bring legal action against providers of payments solutions, including paypal, that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing or allegedly infringing items. any threatened or resulting claims could result in reputational harm, and any resulting liabilities, loss of transaction volume or increased costs could harm our business. our failure to manage our customer funds and the assets underlying our customer funds properly could harm our business. we hold a substantial amount of funds belonging to our customers, including deposits in customer accounts and funds being remitted to sellers of goods and services. in certain jurisdictions where we operate, we are required to hold eligible liquid assets, as defined by the relevant regulators in each jurisdiction, equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of all customer balances. our ability to manage and account accurately for the assets underlying our customer funds and comply with applicable liquid asset requirements requires a high level of internal controls. as our business continues to grow and we expand our product offerings, we must continue to strengthen our associated internal controls. paypal (europe), with the permission of the cssf, utilizes certain european customer balances held by our luxembourg banking subsidiary to fund credit balances relating to our customers. our success requires significant public confidence in our ability to properly manage our customers' balances and handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. any failure to maintain the necessary controls or to manage our customer funds and the assets underlying our customer funds accurately and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements could result in reputational harm, lead customers to discontinue or reduce their use of our products and result in significant penalties and fines, which could materially harm our business. we are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws. we are subject to scrutiny by various government agencies under u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including antitrust and competition laws. an increasing number of jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the u.s., individual states, other countries, or the european commission, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. an increasing number of governments are regulating and increasing their scrutiny of competition law activities. our business agreements or arrangements with customers or other companies could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. some regulators, particularly those outside of the u.s., may perceive that our products and services are used so broadly that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. any claims or investigations, even if without merit, may be very expensive to defend or respond to, involve negative publicity and substantial diversion of management time and effort, and could result in reputational harm, significant judgments against us, or require us to change our business practices. we are subject to patent litigation. we have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties' patents. at any given time, we are typically a defendant in a number of patent lawsuits and have been notified of several other potential patent disputes. we expect that we will continue to be subject to patent infringement claims because, among other reasons: our products and services continue to expand in scope and complexity; we continue to expand into new business areas, including through acquisitions; and the number of patent owners who may claim that we, any of the companies that we have acquired, or our customers infringe their patents, and the aggregate number of patents controlled by such patent owners, continues to increase. such claims may be brought directly against us or against our customers whom we may indemnify because we are contractually obligated to do so or we choose to do so as a business matter. we believe that many of the claims against us and other technology companies have been, and continue to be, initiated by third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. in 25 table of contents addition, we have seen significant patent disputes between operating companies in some technology industries. patent claims, whether meritorious or not, are time-consuming and costly to defend and resolve, and could require us to make expensive changes in our methods of doing business, enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, make substantial payments to satisfy adverse judgments or settle claims or proceedings, or cease conducting certain operations, which would harm our business. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets, is important to the success of our business. we seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. we also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services, including confidentiality and invention assignment agreements entered into with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business. effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our products and services. we may be required to expend significant time and expense in order to prevent infringement or to enforce our rights. although we have generally taken measures to protect our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting or enforcing our rights in every jurisdiction, or that contractual arrangements and other steps that we have taken to protect our intellectual property will prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property or deter independent development of equivalent or superior intellectual property rights by others. if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, the value of our brands could be diminished and our business could be adversely affected. also, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. we have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. these licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. any failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or significant costs incurred in doing so, could diminish the value of our intangible assets and materially harm our business. as the number of products in the technology and payments industries increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual property infringement and other claims. litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of the patent and other intellectual property rights of others. the ultimate outcome of any allegation is often uncertain and, regardless of the outcome, any such claim, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management's time and attention from our business, and require us to, among other things, redesign or stop providing our products or services, pay substantial amounts to satisfy judgments or settle claims or lawsuits, pay substantial royalty or licensing fees, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with certain parties with whom we have commercial relationships. our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation or claims arising out of intellectual property matters, may harm our business. we are regularly subject to general litigation, regulatory disputes, and government inquiries. we are regularly subject to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, government and regulatory investigations, inquiries or requests, and other proceedings alleging violations of laws, rules and regulations with respect to competition, antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, information security, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, sanctions, anti-corruption, consumer protection, fraud, accessibility, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, services, charitable fundraising, contract disputes, escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property, and other matters. in particular, our business faces ongoing consumer protection and intellectual property litigation, as discussed above. the number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as our business has expanded in scale, scope and geographic reach, and our products and services have increased in complexity. in addition, the laws, rules and regulations affecting our business, including those pertaining to internet and mobile commerce, payments services, and credit, are subject to ongoing interpretation by the courts and governmental authorities, and the resulting uncertainty in the scope and application of these laws, rules and regulations increases the risk that we will be subject to private claims and governmental actions alleging violations. the scope, outcome and impact of claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and proceedings to which we are subject cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of the outcome, such investigations and proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, reputational damage, and other factors. determining reserves for our pending litigation and regulatory proceedings is a complex, fact-intensive process that involves a high degree of judgment. resolving one or more such legal and regulatory proceedings could potentially require us to make substantial payments to satisfy 26 table of contents judgments, fines or penalties or to settle claims or proceedings, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business. these proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders that prevent us from offering certain products or services, require us to change our business practices in costly ways or develop non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. any of these consequences could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. while certain of our customer agreements contain arbitration provisions with class action waiver provisions that may limit our exposure to consumer class action litigation, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in enforcing these arbitration provisions, including the class action waiver provisions, in the future or in any given case. legislative, administrative or regulatory developments may directly or indirectly prohibit or limit the use of pre-dispute arbitration clauses and class action waiver provisions. any such prohibitions or limitations on or discontinuation of the use of, such arbitration or class action waiver provisions could subject us to additional lawsuits, including additional consumer class action litigation, and significantly limit our ability to avoid exposure from consumer class action litigation. changes in u.s. tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations and financial conditions. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act ). the tax act makes changes to the corporate tax rate, business-related deductions and taxation of foreign earnings, among others, that will generally be effective for taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017. these changes could have a material adverse impact on the value of our u.s. deferred tax assets, result in significant one-time charges in the current or future taxable years and increase our future u.s. tax expense. we are continuing to evaluate the tax act and its requirements, as well as its application to our business and its impact on our effective tax rate. at this stage, it is unclear how many u.s. states will incorporate these federal law changes, or portions thereof, into their tax codes. the implementation by us of new practices and processes designed to comply with, and benefit from, the tax act and its rules and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world. any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the periods for which such determination is made. while we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient. in addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated, or by the incurrence of losses, in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, as a result of gains on our foreign exchange risk management program, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. various levels of government, such as u.s. federal and state legislatures, and international organizations, such as the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ) and the eu, are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative or regulatory action to increase tax revenue. any such tax reform or other legislative or regulatory actions could increase our effective tax rate. we and our merchants may be subject to sales reporting and record-keeping obligations. a number of u.s. states, the u.s. federal government and foreign countries have implemented or are in the process of implementing reporting or record-keeping obligations on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce to improve tax compliance. additionally, a number of jurisdictions are reviewing whether payment service providers and other intermediaries could be deemed to be the legal agent of merchants for certain tax purposes. we have modified our systems to meet known requirements and expect further modifications will be required to comply with future requirements, which may negatively impact our customer experience and increase operational costs. any failure by us to comply with these and similar reporting and record-keeping obligations could 27 table of contents result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, adversely impact our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions, and harm our business. acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic investments, and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties and could harm our business. acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic investments, and other strategic transactions are important elements of our overall corporate strategy. we expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions of certain businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets, as well as joint ventures, strategic investments, and commercial and strategic partnerships. these transactions may involve significant challenges and risks, including: the potential loss of key customers, vendors and other key business partners of the companies we acquire, or dispose of, following and continuing after announcement of our transaction plans; difficulty making strategic hires of new employees, declining employee morale and retention issues affecting employees (particularly the potential loss of key personnel) of companies that we acquire or dispose of, which may result from changes in compensation, management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the acquired or disposed business; diversion of management time and focus; the need to and difficulty of integrating the operations, systems (including accounting, compliance, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems), technologies, products and personnel of each acquired company, which is an inherently risky and potentially lengthy and costly process; the need to and difficulty of implementing and/or enhancing controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies which, prior to the acquisition, may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies or whose controls, procedures and policies did not meet applicable legal and regulatory standards; the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if integration of acquired companies is delayed or not implemented, and unforeseen difficulties and costs that may arise as a result; potential exposure to new or increased regulatory oversight and regulatory obligations associated with new products and services or entry into new markets; risks associated with our expansion into new international markets; risks associated with the complexity of entering into and effectively managing joint ventures, strategic investments, and other strategic partnerships; risks associated with undetected cyberattacks or security breaches at companies that we acquire or with which we may combine or partner; lawsuits or regulatory actions resulting from the transaction; liability for activities or conduct of the acquired company before the acquisition, including legal and regulatory claims or disputes, violations of laws and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; the acquisition of new customer and employee personal information, which in and of itself may require regulatory approval and or additional controls, policies and procedures and subject us to additional exposure and additional complexity and costs of compliance; and our dependence on the accounting, financial reporting, operating metrics and similar systems, controls and processes of acquired businesses and the risk that errors or irregularities in those systems, controls and processes will lead to errors in our financial statements or make it more difficult to manage the acquired business. at any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these or other types of transactions, any of which could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to our financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, and consummating favorable transaction opportunities. it may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. any acquisitions or dispositions may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), recognize liabilities, and record amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill or intangibles, which could dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders and adversely affect our results of operations and the interests of holders of our indebtedness, as applicable. joint ventures and minority investment inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational and/or compliance risks associated with the joint venture or minority investment. in addition, we may be dependent on joint venture partners, controlling shareholders, management or other persons or entities who control them and who may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours. business decisions or other 28 table of contents actions or omissions of the joint venture partners, controlling shareholders, management or other persons or entities who control them and who may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us and otherwise damage our reputation and brand. there are risks associated with our indebtedness. we have incurred indebtedness, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this risk factors section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, which creates additional risk. we rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, including the following: networks, banks, payment processors, and payment gateways that link us to the payment card and bank clearing networks to process transactions; unaffiliated third-party lenders to originate loans in the u.s. for our paypal credit consumer product. paypal working capital and other business loan products; third parties that provide loan servicing and customer statements processing; third parties that provide certain outsourced customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations; and third parties that provide facilities, infrastructure, components and services, including data center facilities and cloud computing. because we rely on third parties to provide services to us and our customers and to facilitate certain of our business activities, we face increased operational risk. these third parties may be subject to financial, legal, regulatory, labor or other issues, such as service terminations, disruptions or interruptions, that prevent them from providing services to us or our customers. moreover, these third parties are themselves subject to the risks discussed earlier in the "risk factors" section under the caption "our business is subject to cyberattacks and security and privacy breaches." in addition, these third parties may breach their agreements with us, disagree with our interpretation of contract terms or applicable laws and regulations, refuse to continue or renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms or at all, fail or refuse to process transactions adequately, take actions that degrade the functionality of our services, impose additional costs or requirements on us, or give preferential treatment to competitive services. there can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to us or our customers will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. if any third parties were to stop providing services to us or our customers on acceptable terms, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner, and on acceptable terms or at all. if third parties we rely on do not adequately or appropriately provide their services or perform their responsibilities, we may be subject to business disruptions, losses or costs to remediate any of the deficiencies, customer dissatisfaction, reputational damage, legal or regulatory proceedings, or other adverse consequences which could harm our business. our developer platforms, which are open to merchants and third-party developers, subject us to additional risks. we provide third-party developers with access to application programming interfaces, software development kits and other tools designed to allow them to produce applications for use, with a particular focus on mobile applications. there can be no assurance that merchants or third-party developers will develop and maintain applications and services on our open platforms on a timely basis or at all, and a number of factors could cause such third-party developers to curtail or stop development for our platforms. in addition, our business is subject to many regulatory restrictions. it is possible that merchants and third-party developers who utilize our development platforms or tools could violate these regulatory restrictions and we may be held responsible for such violations, which could harm our business. our retail point of sale solutions expose us to additional risks. we have announced several retail point of sale solutions, which enable merchants to accept payments using a payments card reader attached to, or otherwise communicating with, a mobile device or to scan payment cards and codes using the mobile device's embedded camera, and which enable consumers to use their mobile devices to pay at the point of sale. we have entered into strategic partnerships with major payment card networks to further expand our relationship in a way that will make it easier for merchants to accept and consumers to choose to pay for transactions utilizing these companies' credit and debit cards. those 29 table of contents agreements provide us with access to each of these partner's tokenization services in the u.s. for in-store point-of-sale paypal transactions, which we expect will increase the number of point of sale transactions that we process. as we continue to expand our product and service offerings at the retail point of sale, we will face additional risks, including: increased expectations from offline retailers regarding the reliability and availability of our systems and services and correspondingly lower amounts of downtime, which we may not be able to meet; significant competition at the retail point of sale, particularly from established payment card providers , many of which have substantially greater resources than we do; increased targeting by fraudsters; given that our fraud models are less developed in this area, we may experience increases in fraud and associated transaction losses as we adjust to fraudulent activity at the point of sale; exposure to product liability claims to the extent that hardware devices that we produce for use at the retail point of sale malfunction or are not in compliance with laws, which could result in substantial liability and require product recalls or other actions; exposure to additional laws, rules and regulations; increased reliance on third parties involved with processing in-store payments, including independent software providers, electronic point of sale providers, hardware providers (such as cash register and pin-pad providers), payment processors and banks that enable in-store transactions; and lower operating income than our other payment solutions. unless we are able to successfully manage these risks, including driving adoption of, and significant volume through, our retail point of sale solutions over time, our business may be harmed. our success largely depends on key personnel. because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain, and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. the loss of key personnel could harm our business. our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of key personnel, including our executive team and other highly skilled employees, and our ability to attract, retain, and motivate such personnel. competition for key personnel is intense, especially in the san francisco bay area, where our corporate headquarters are located and where the cost of living is high, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified key personnel. in making employment decisions, particularly in the technology and payments industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment, and fluctuations in our stock price, or a perception that the market price of our stock may not increase or may increase more slowly than stock prices at other technology or payments companies, may make it more difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees. we may be limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws or policies. in addition, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our inability to attract highly qualified key personnel, could harm our business. we are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our products and services. companies providing online services may be subject to claims relating to information disseminated through them, including claims alleging defamation, libel, harassment, hate speech, breach of contract, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, among other things. the laws relating to the liability of companies providing online services for information disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges. we are also subject to potential liability to third parties for the customer-provided content on our products and services, particularly in jurisdictions outside the u.s. where the applicable laws are unsettled. if we become liable for information provided by our customers and carried on our products and services, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain product or service offerings, which could harm our business. risks related to the separation from ebay if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the internal revenue code (the code ), ebay, paypal and ebay stockholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify ebay for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. on july 17, 2015, we became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by ebay inc. of 100% of our outstanding common stock to ebay's stockholders (which we sometimes refer to as the separation or the distribution ). ebay received an opinion from its outside legal counsel regarding the qualification of the distribution, together with certain related 30 table of contents transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code. the opinion was based on and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of ebay and of us, including those relating to the past and future conduct of ebay and of us. if any of these representations, statements or undertakings were, or became, inaccurate or incomplete, or if ebay or we breach any of our respective covenants in the separation documents, the opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. notwithstanding the opinion of counsel, the irs could determine that the distribution, together with certain related transactions, should be treated as a taxable transaction if the irs determines that any of these representations, assumptions, or undertakings upon which such opinion was based are incorrect or have been violated or if the irs disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. an opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs or any court and there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reached in the opinion. the irs did not provide any opinion in advance of the separation that our proposed transaction is tax-free. if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code, in general, ebay would recognize taxable gain as if it had sold the paypal common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, ebay stockholders who received paypal common stock in the distribution may be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares and we could incur significant liabilities. there are risks associated with certain agreements that we entered into with ebay at the separation. in connection with the separation, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with ebay as well as various other agreements, including an operating agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, an intellectual property matters agreement, a data sharing addendum, and a product development agreement. the separation agreement, the tax matters agreement, the employee matters agreement, and the intellectual property matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities (including by means of licensing) between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include associated indemnification obligations. the operating agreement, the data sharing addendum and the product development agreement establish certain commercial relationships between ebay and us related to payment processing, credit and data sharing. if we or ebay is unable to satisfy its performance, payment or indemnification obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses or be required to make substantial indemnification or other payments to ebay. our relationship with ebay is governed in part by an operating agreement entered into at separation with a term of five years. this operating agreement defines a number of important elements of our commercial relationship with ebay, as well as certain obligations and limitations that limit paypal's provision of services to certain competitive platform operators of ebay (as specified in the operating agreement). ebay remains a significant source of our revenues and operating income. if our operating agreement with ebay expires or is terminated prior to its expiration, or if there is a significant change in our relationship with ebay, including if ebay becomes a merchant of record, eliminates or modifies any of its risk management or customer protection programs, directs transactions to a different provider of payment services or offers ebay customers alternative payment options, it could lead to customer dissatisfaction, reputational damage, and other adverse consequences, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. risks related to our common stock the price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts; changes in our capital structure; speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community; the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which we operate; and market conditions or trends in the payments industry, the industries of merchants and the domestic and worldwide economy as a whole. 31 table of contents our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the state courts of the state of delaware, or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the corporation otherwise determines, the state courts of the state of delaware, or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to us or our stockholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the delaware general corporation law ( dgcl ) or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. alternatively, if a court outside of delaware were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we could incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of deterring coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and by encouraging prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include, among others: rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the fact that directors may not be elected, removed or replaced at stockholder-requested special meetings unless a person, entity or group owns at least a majority of our outstanding common stock; the right of our board to issue preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend and other rights of preferred stock without stockholder approval; the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors in most circumstances and to determine the size of our board of directors; the prohibition on stockholders acting by written consent; and the absence of cumulative rights in the election of directors. we have also elected not to be governed by section 203 of the dgcl, which provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, however, contains a provision that generally mirrors section 203 of the dgcl, except that it provides for a 20% threshold instead of the 15% provided for by the dgcl. these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may favor. these provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and may delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity price risk. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our investing, funding, and foreign currency derivative activities in order to mitigate market risks. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk relating to our investment portfolio and from interest-rate sensitive assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our consolidated balance sheet as customer accounts. we seek to reduce earnings volatility that may result from changes in interest rates. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , approximately 39% and 25% , respectively, of our total cash and investment portfolio was held in cash and cash equivalents. the assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our consolidated balance sheet as customer accounts are maintained in interest and non-interest bearing bank deposits, time deposits, u.s. and foreign government and agency securities and corporate debt securities. we classify the assets underlying the customer balances as current based on their purpose and availability to fulfill our direct obligation under amounts due to customers. we seek to preserve principal while holding eligible liquid assets, as defined by applicable regulatory requirements and commercial law in the jurisdictions where we operate, equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of all customer balances. we do not pay interest on amounts due to customers. in the fourth quarter of 2017, we entered into an unsecured $3.0 billion , 364 day delayed-draw term loan credit facility, which is available in up to three borrowings ("2017 credit agreement"). in the third quarter of 2015, we entered into a $2.0 billion senior unsecured credit facility maturing in 2020 ("2015 credit agreement"). the company maintains uncommitted credit facilities in various regions throughout the world, aggregating to approximately $250 million . borrowings under the 2017 credit agreement and 2015 credit agreement, if any, bear interest at floating rates. as a result, we will be exposed to fluctuations in interest rates to the extent of our borrowings. as of december 31, 2017 , $1.0 billion was outstanding under the 2017 credit agreement at an interest rate of 2.78% (one month libor plus a margin of 1.125% ). accordingly, at december 31, 2017 , $2.0 billion of borrowing capacity was available for the purposes permitted by the 2017 credit agreement, subject to customary conditions to borrowing. as of december 31, 2017 , no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under the 2015 credit agreement or uncommitted facilities. interest rates may also adversely impact our customers' spending levels and ability and willingness to pay outstanding amounts owed to us. higher interest rates often lead to higher payment obligations by customers to us and other lenders under mortgage, credit card and other consumer and merchant loans, which may reduce our customers' ability to remain current on their obligations to us and therefore lead to increased delinquencies, charge-offs and allowance for loan and interest receivable, which could have an adverse effect on our net income. a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would not have had a material impact on our financial assets or liabilities at december 31, 2017 and 2016 . foreign currency risk we have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, australian dollar and canadian dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency risk which may adversely impact our financial results. we transact business in various foreign currencies and have significant international revenues and costs. in addition, we charge our international subsidiaries for their use of intellectual property and technology and for certain corporate services. our cash flows, results of operations and certain of our intercompany balances that are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses due to foreign currency fluctuations and related hedging activities. we are generally a net receiver of foreign currencies and therefore benefit from a weakening of the u.s. dollar, and are adversely affected by a strengthening of the u.s. dollar, relative to foreign currencies. we have a foreign exchange exposure management program designed to identify material foreign currency exposures, manage these exposures and reduce the potential effects of currency fluctuations on our reported consolidated cash flows and results of operations through the execution of foreign currency exchange contracts. these foreign currency exchange contracts are accounted for as derivative instruments; for additional details related to our foreign currency exchange contracts, please see note 8 derivative instruments to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 60 table of contents we use foreign exchange forward contracts to protect our forecasted u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of adverse currency exchange rate movements. we designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) and subsequently reclassified into revenue in the same period the forecasted transaction affects earnings. the ineffective portion of the unrealized gains and losses on these contracts, if any, is recorded immediately in earnings. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. if the u.s. dollar weakened by 20% at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , the amount recorded in aoci related to our foreign currency exchange forward contracts, before taxes, would have been approximately $536 million and $341 million lower, respectively. if the u.s. dollar strengthened by 20% at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , the amount recorded in aoci related to our foreign currency exchange forward contracts, before taxes, would have been approximately $536 million and $341 million higher, respectively. we have an additional foreign exchange management program whereby we use foreign currency exchange contracts to offset the foreign currency exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. these contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. the foreign currency gains and losses on our assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, and are offset by the gains and losses on the foreign currency exchange contracts. adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before income taxes of approximately $243 million and $160 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, without considering the offsetting effect of hedging. foreign currency exchange contracts in place as of december 31, 2017 would have positively impacted income before income taxes by approximately $211 million , resulting in a net negative impact of approximately $32 million . foreign currency exchange contracts in place as of december 31, 2016 would have positively impacted income before income taxes by approximately $128 million , resulting in a net negative impact of approximately $32 million . these reasonably possible adverse changes in currency exchange rates of 20% were applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries at the balance sheet dates to compute the adverse impact these changes would have had on our income before income taxes in the near term. equity price risk as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , our cost method investments totaled $88 million and $50 million , respectively, which represented approximately 1% of our total cash and investment portfolio and were primarily related to cost method investments in privately held companies. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , we did not hold any marketable equity instruments. we review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate a decline in fair value of such assets below carrying value is other-than-temporary. our analysis includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales and acquisitions of the securities in which we have invested and other publicly available data.risk factors 11 risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). we do not intend, and undertake no obligation except as required by law, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. you should read the information in this report in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. item 1. business overview paypal holdings, inc. was incorporated in delaware in january 2015 and is a leading technology platform and digital payments company that enables digital and mobile payments on behalf of consumers and merchants worldwide. paypal is committed to democratizing financial services and empowering people and businesses to join and thrive in the global economy. our goal is to enable our consumers and merchants to manage and move their money anywhere in the world, anytime, on any platform and using any device. our combined payment solutions, including our paypal, paypal credit, braintree, venmo, xoom and izettle products, compose our proprietary payments platform. paypal's service enables our customers to send and receive payments. we operate a two-sided network where both merchants and consumers have paypal accounts with stored balance functionality. since paypal serves as a proprietary payment method that is accepted by merchants, we are more than a connection to third-party payment networks. our service enables the completion of payments on our payments platform on behalf of our customers. we offer our customers the flexibility to use their accounts to purchase and receive payment for goods and services, as well as to transfer and withdraw funds. we enable consumers to exchange funds more safely with merchants using a variety of funding sources, which may include a bank account, a paypal account balance, a paypal credit account, a credit or debit card, or other stored value products such as coupons and gift cards. our paypal, venmo and xoom products also make it safer and simpler for friends and family to transfer funds to each other. we offer merchants an end-to-end payments solution that provides authorization and settlement capabilities, as well as instant access to funds. we help merchants connect with their customers and manage risk. we enable consumers to engage in cross-border shopping and merchants to extend their global reach while reducing the complexity and friction involved in enabling overseas and cross-border trade. we earn revenues primarily by charging fees for completing payment transactions for our customers and other payment-related services that are typically based on the volume of activity processed on our payments platform. generally, we do not charge consumers to fund or draw from their accounts; however, we generate revenue from consumers on fees charged for foreign currency exchange. we also earn revenue by providing other value added services which comprise revenue earned through partnerships, our paypal credit products, subscription fees, gateway services, and other services that we provide to our merchants and consumers. our gateway services, which include our payflow gateway services and braintree gateway services, provide the technology that links a merchant's website to its processing network and merchant account and enables merchants to accept payments online with credit or debit cards. 4 table of contents strategy our ability to grow revenue is affected by, among other things, consumer spending patterns, merchant and consumer adoption of digital payment methods, the expansion of multiple commerce channels, the growth of mobile devices and merchant and consumer applications on those devices, the growth of consumers globally with internet and mobile access, the pace of transition from cash and checks to digital forms of payment, our share of the digital payments market, and our ability to innovate and bring new products and services that merchants and consumers value. our strategy to drive growth in our business includes the following: growing our core business : through expanding our global capabilities, customer base and scale, increasing our customers' use of our products and services by better addressing their everyday needs related to accessing, managing and moving money, and expanding the adoption of our solutions by new merchants and consumers; expanding our value proposition for customers : by focusing on trust and simplicity, providing risk management and insights from our two-sided payments platform, and being technology and platform agnostic; extending through strategic partnerships : by building new strategic partnerships to provide better experiences for our customers, offering greater choice and flexibility, acquiring new customers, and reinforcing our role in the ecosystem; and seeking new areas of growth : organically and through acquisitions in our existing and new international markets around the world and focusing on innovation both in the digital and physical world. key performance metrics we measure the relevance of our products and services to our customers, and therefore the success of our business, through active accounts, payment transactions, and payment volume: active accounts : an active account is an account registered directly with paypal or a platform access partner that has completed a transaction on our payments platform, not including gateway-exclusive transactions, within the past 12 months. a platform access partner is a third party whose customers are provided access to paypal's payments platform through such third party's login credentials. as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately 267 million active accounts across more than 200 markets. a market is a geographic area or political jurisdiction, such as a country, territory, or protectorate, in which we offer some or all of our services. a country, territory, or protectorate is identified by a distinct set of laws and regulations. 5 table of contents number of payment transactions : number of payment transactions is the total number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed on our payments platform or enabled by paypal via a partner payment solution, not including gateway-exclusive transactions. total payment volume ( tpv ) : tpv is the value of payments, net of reversals, successfully completed on our payments platform or enabled by paypal via a partner payment solution, not including gateway-exclusive transactions. our strengths our business is built on a strong foundation designed to drive growth and differentiate us from our competitors. we believe that our competitive strengths include the following: two-sided platform our platform connecting merchants and consumers enables paypal to offer unique end-to-end product experiences while gaining valuable insights into customer behavior through our data. our platform provides for simple digital and mobile transactions while being both technology and platform agnostic. scale our global scale allows us to drive organic growth. as of december 31, 2018 , we had 267 million active accounts, which included 21 million active merchant accounts. in 2018 , we processed $578 billion of tpv in more than 200 markets around the world. brands we have built well-recognized and trusted brands. our marketing efforts play an important role in building brand visibility, usage, and overall preference among customers. risk management our risk management system and tokenization usage are designed to help keep our customers safe and to help ensure we process legitimate transactions around the world, while identifying and reducing illegal, high-risk, or fraudulent transactions. regulatory we believe that our regulatory licenses, which enable us to operate in markets around the world, are a distinct advantage and support business growth. technology our payments platform utilizes a combination of proprietary and third-party technologies and services to efficiently and securely facilitate transactions between millions of merchants and consumers worldwide across different channels, markets and networks. our payments platform connects with financial service providers around the world and allows consumers to make purchases using a wide range of payment methods, regardless of where a merchant is located. consumers who use our payments platform can send payments in more than 200 markets across the globe and in more than 100 currencies, withdraw funds to their bank accounts in 56 currencies and hold balances in their paypal accounts in 25 currencies. a transaction on our payments platform can involve multiple participants in addition to us, including a merchant, a consumer, and the consumer's funding source provider. we have developed intuitive user interfaces, customer tools, and transaction completion database and network applications on our payments platform that help our customers utilize our suite of products and services. our payments platform, open application programming interfaces, and developer tools are designed to enable developers to innovate with ease and offer robust applications to our global ecosystem of merchants and consumers, while at the same time maintaining the security of our customers' financial information. the technology infrastructure supporting our payments platform simplifies the storage and processing of large amounts of data and facilitates the deployment and operation of large-scale global products and services. our technology infrastructure is designed around industry-standard architectures intended to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences. our payments platform incorporates multiple layers of protection for continuity and system redundancy purposes and to help address cybersecurity challenges. we have a comprehensive cybersecurity program designed to protect our technology infrastructure and payments platform against these challenges, including regularly testing our systems to address potential vulnerabilities. we strive to continually improve our technology infrastructure and payments platform to enhance the customer experience and to increase efficiency, scalability, and security. 6 table of contents merchant and consumer payment solutions our combined payment solution capabilities offer our merchants and consumers a broad range of products and services, enabling our merchants to securely and simply receive payments from their customers while allowing our consumers to make seamless transactions across different markets and networks. we partner with our merchants to help grow and expand their businesses by improving sales conversion; providing global reach, offering alternative payment methods; reducing losses through proprietary protection programs, providing fraud prevention and risk management solutions; and leveraging data analytics. we generate revenues from merchants primarily by charging fees for completing their payment transactions and other payment-related services. merchants can onboard quickly with paypal and are generally not required to invest in new or specialized hardware. we do not charge merchants setup or recurring fees for our standard service. we offer access to credit products for certain small and medium-sized merchants through our paypal working capital and paypal business loan products, which we collectively refer to as our business financing offerings. our paypal working capital product allows businesses to borrow a certain percentage of their annual payment volume processed by paypal for a fixed fee. our paypal business loan product provides businesses with short-term financing for a fixed fee based on an evaluation of both the applying business as well as the business owner. we believe that our business financing offerings allow us to deepen our engagement with our existing small and medium-sized business merchants and expand services to new merchants by providing access to capital that may not be available effectively or efficiently from traditional banks or other lending providers. paypal is a popular form of payment for mobile commerce, and our business has grown with the increased adoption of mobile devices. we believe our braintree products strengthen our position in mobile payments and extend our coverage to a new class of retailers and service providers that offer their services primarily through mobile applications. through a single braintree integration, a merchant can begin accepting payments with credit or debit cards, paypal, paypal credit, google pay, apple pay, samsung pay, and other payment solutions. we also offer gateway services, including our payflow gateway services and braintree gateway services, which enable merchants to accept payments online with credit or debit cards. our gateway services provide the payment gateway technology that links a merchant's website to its processing network and enable merchants to accept payments online with credit and debit cards. we believe that our recent acquisition of izettle in september 2018 will enable us to further expand our in-store presence and strengthen our payments platform to help small businesses around the world grow and thrive in an omnichannel retail environment. izettle offers a card acceptance service that enables small businesses to take credit and debit card payments, as well as a software solution to record, manage and analyze sales. izettle provides in-store capabilities in eleven countries, as well as near-term, in-store expansion opportunities into other existing paypal markets. we focus on providing affordable consumer products intended to democratize the management and movement of money. we generate revenue from consumers on fees charged for foreign currency exchange and on interest and fees from our paypal credit product. we offer our paypal credit product to consumers as a potential funding source at checkout. once a consumer is approved for credit, paypal credit is made available as a funding source in his or her account. we believe that our consumer credit products allow us to increase engagement with consumers and merchants on our two-sided network and differentiate ourselves from other payment processors by helping merchants drive incremental sales through products like paypal credit. we are responsible for servicing functions related to all of our credit products. in the u.s., credit originating from our paypal working capital and paypal business loan products is currently extended through third-party financial institutions from whom we purchase the related receivables. for our consumer and merchant credit products outside the u.s., we extend credit through certain international paypal subsidiaries. during the fourth quarter of 2017, we expanded our strategic consumer credit relationship with synchrony financial and agreed to sell our u.s. consumer credit receivables portfolio to synchrony bank. following the closing of this transaction in july 2018, synchrony bank became the exclusive issuer of the u.s. paypal branded consumer credit program and we no longer hold an ownership interest in receivables generated through the program. we offer consumers person-to-person ( p2p ) payment solutions through our paypal, venmo and xoom products. paypal continues to be a key driver of our total p2p volumes, enabling both domestic and international p2p transfers across our payments platform. our venmo app in the u.s. is a leading mobile application used to move money between our customers and to make purchases at approved merchants. xoom is an international money transfer service that enables our customers to send money to, pay bills for, and send prepaid mobile phone reloads to people around the world in a secure, fast, and cost-effective way, using a mobile device or personal computer. p2p is a significant customer acquisition channel that facilitates organic growth by enabling potential paypal users to establish active accounts with us at the time they make or receive a p2p payment. 7 table of contents protecting merchants and consumers protecting merchants and consumers on our payments platform from financial and fraud loss is imperative to successfully competing in the payments industry and sustainably growing our business. fraudulent activities, such as account takeover, identity theft, and counterparty malicious activities, represent a significant risk to merchants and consumers, as well as their payment partners. we provide merchants and consumers with protection programs on most purchase transactions completed on our payments platform, excluding gateway-exclusive transactions or situations where our customer agreements specifically do not provide for protections. we believe that these programs, which protect both merchants and consumers from financial and fraud loss due primarily to fraud and counterparty non-performance, are generally much broader than similar protections provided by other participants in the payments industry. as a result, merchants may incur losses for chargebacks and other claims on certain transactions when using other payments providers that the merchants would not incur if they used our payments services. we also provide consumer protection against losses on qualifying purchases and accept claims for review up to 180 days post-transaction. we believe that this protection is generally consistent with, or better than, that offered by other payments providers. these programs are designed to promote confidence on both the part of consumers (i.e., when using our payment platform, they will only be required to pay if they receive their purchased item or service in the condition significantly as described) and merchants (i.e., they will receive payment for the product they deliver to the customer). our ability to protect both consumers and merchants is based largely on our proprietary, end-to-end payments platform and our ability to leverage the data from both sides of transactions on our two-sided network (i.e., from buyers and sellers, and from senders and receivers of payments). we believe mobile devices will continue to play a significant and increasing role in commerce, including by creating the opportunities to make our ecosystem safer. for example, paypal is able to use location data from mobile devices and growing protection for the mobile operating environment to reduce financial and fraud risk to merchants and consumers. our ongoing investment in systems and processes, designed to enhance the safety and security of our products, reflects our goal of having paypal recognized as one of the world's most trusted payments brands. competition the global payments industry is highly competitive, rapidly changing, highly innovative, and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. we compete against a wide range of businesses, including those that are larger than we are, have a dominant and secure position, or offer other products and services to consumers and merchants that we do not offer, as well as smaller companies that may be able to respond more quickly in the face of regulatory and technological changes. we compete against all forms of payments, including credit and debit cards; automated clearing house and bank transfers; other online payment services; mobile payments; and offline payment methods, including cash and check. we compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain, and engage both merchants and consumers with our two-sided platform; ability to demonstrate to merchants that they may achieve incremental sales by using and offering our services to consumers; consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions on our payments platform, including the ability for consumers to use our products and services without sharing their financial information with the merchant or any other party they are paying; simplicity and transparency of our fee structure; ability to develop products and services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments, credit products, and payments at the retail point of sale; trust in our dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service experience; brand recognition and preference; website, mobile platform and application onboarding, ease-of-use, speed, availability, and dependability; the technology and payment agnostic nature of our payments platform; system reliability and data security; ability to assist merchants in complying with payments-related laws and regulations ; ease and quality of integration into third-party mobile applications and operating systems; and quality of developer tools, such as our application programming interfaces and software development kits. in addition to the discussion in this section, see item 1a. risk factors under the caption we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry for further discussion of the potential impact of competition on our business. 8 table of contents research and development total research and development expense was $1.1 billion , $953 million and $834 million in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. intellectual property the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the paypal name), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets is important to the success of our business. we seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. we also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services. we have routinely entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and non-disclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business, to control use, access to, and limit disclosure of our proprietary information. we pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks, and service marks in the u.s. and internationally. additionally, we have filed patent applications in the u.s. and in international jurisdictions covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology and new innovations. we have registered our core brands as domain names and as trademarks in the u.s. and a large number of other jurisdictions. we also have in place an active program to continue to secure and enforce trademarks and domain names that corresponds to our brands in markets of interest. for additional information regarding some of the risks relating to our intellectual property, including costs of protecting our intellectual property, see the information in item 1a. risk factors under the captions we are subject to patent litigation and we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights . government regulation we operate globally and in a rapidly evolving regulatory environment characterized by a heightened regulatory focus on all aspects of the payments industry. that focus continues to become even more heightened as regulators on a global basis focus on such important issues as countering terrorist financing, anti-money laundering, privacy, cybersecurity, and consumer protection. some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject were enacted recently, and the laws and regulations applicable to us, including those enacted prior to the advent of digital and mobile payments, are continuing to evolve through legislative and regulatory action and judicial interpretation. new or changing laws and regulations, including how such laws and regulations are interpreted and implemented, as well as increased penalties and enforcement actions related to non-compliance, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. therefore, we monitor these areas closely to design compliant solutions for our customers who depend on us. government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the markets we operate. payments regulation. various laws and regulations govern the payments industry in the u.s. and internationally. in the u.s., paypal, inc. holds licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent), which, among other things, subjects paypal, inc. to reporting requirements, bonding requirements, limitations on the investment of customer funds, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. outside the u.s., we provide similar services customized for various countries and foreign jurisdictions through our foreign subsidiaries. the activities of those non-u.s. entities are, or may be, supervised by a financial regulatory authority in the jurisdictions in which they operate. among other regulatory authorities, the luxembourg commission de surveillance du secteur financier (the cssf ), the australian securities and investment commission, the monetary authority of singapore, the reserve bank of india, and the central bank of russia have asserted jurisdiction over some or all of our activities in their respective jurisdictions. this list is not exhaustive, and there are numerous other regulatory agencies that have or may assert jurisdiction over our activities. the laws and regulations applicable to the payments industry in any given jurisdiction are subject to interpretation and change. banking agency supervision . we serve our customers in the european union ( eu ) through paypal (europe) s. .r.l. et cie, sca, a wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in luxembourg by the cssf. consequently, we must comply with rules and regulations of the european banking industry, including those related to capitalization, funds management, corporate governance, anti-money laundering, disclosure, reporting, and inspection. we also are, or may be, subject to banking-related regulations in other countries now or in the future related to our role in the financial industry. in addition, based on our relationships with our partner financial institutions, we are, or may be, subject to indirect regulation and examination by these financial institutions' regulators. 9 table of contents consumer financial protection bureau . the consumer financial protection bureau (the cfpb ) has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products in the u.s., including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products. as a large market participant of remittance transfers, the cfpb has direct supervisory authority over our business. the cfpb and other similar regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions may have broad consumer protection mandates that could result in the promulgation and interpretation of rules and regulations that may affect our business. anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing. paypal is subject to anti-money laundering ( aml ) laws and regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions, as well as laws designed to prevent the use of the financial systems to facilitate terrorist activities. our aml program is designed to prevent our payment network from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit activities, or to do business in countries or with persons and entities included on designated country or person lists promulgated by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets controls ( ofac ) and equivalent authorities in other countries. our aml and sanctions compliance programs, overseen by our aml/bank secrecy act officer, is composed of policies, procedures and internal controls, and is designed to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks. interchange fees. interchange fees associated with four-party payments systems are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions. for example, in the eu, the multilateral interchange fee ( mif ) regulation caps credit and debit interchange fees for card payments and provides for business rules to be complied with by any company dealing with card transactions, including paypal. as a result, the fees that we collect in certain jurisdictions may become the subject of regulatory challenge. data protection and information security. aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy and data protection regulation in the u.s., the eu, asia pacific, and elsewhere. for example, the eu adopted a comprehensive general data protection regulation (the gdpr ), which came into effect in may 2018, as supplemented by any national laws (such as in the u.k., the data protection act 2018) and further implemented through binding guidance from the european data protection board,and expanded the scope of the eu data protection law to foreign companies processing personal data of european economic area ( eea ) individuals, imposed a stricter data protection compliance regime, and included new data subject rights (e.g., the right to erasure, commonly known as the right to be forgotten ). in the u.s., we are subject to privacy information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act that require the maintenance of a written, comprehensive information security program and in europe, the operations of our luxembourg bank are subject to confidentiality and information safeguarding requirements under the luxembourg banking act, among other laws. regulatory authorities around the world are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy and data protection that may contain additional privacy and data protection obligations than exist today. in addition, the interpretation and application of these privacy and data protection laws in the u.s., europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in a state of flux. anti-corruption. paypal is subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, and similar anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving, accepting, or authorizing others to provide anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to or from a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. we have implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with these laws and regulations. additional regulatory developments. various regulatory agencies continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including virtual currencies, identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, cybersecurity, and marketing that may impact paypal's business. for an additional discussion on governmental regulation affecting our business, please see the risk factors related to regulation of our payments business and regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use, and/or security in item 1a. risk factors under the caption risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and item 3. legal proceedings included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. seasonality the company does not experience meaningful seasonality with respect to net revenues. no individual quarter in 2018 , 2017 or 2016 accounted for more than 30% of annual net revenue. 10 table of contents employees as of december 31, 2018 , we employed approximately 21,800 people globally, of whom approximately 11,500 were located in the u.s. we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. separation from ebay inc. paypal holdings, inc. was incorporated in delaware in january 2015 for the purpose of owning and operating ebay's payments business in connection with the separation and distribution described below. prior to the contribution of this business to paypal holdings, inc., which occurred prior to the distribution in july 2015, paypal holdings, inc. had no operations. on july 17, 2015 (the distribution date ), paypal became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by ebay of 100% of the outstanding common stock of paypal to ebay stockholders (which we refer to as the separation or the distribution ). each ebay stockholder of record as of the close of business on july 8, 2015 received one share of paypal common stock for every share of ebay common stock held on the record date. approximately 1.2 billion shares of paypal common stock were distributed on july 17, 2015 to ebay stockholders. paypal's common stock began regular way trading under the ticker symbol pypl on the nasdaq stock market on july 20, 2015. prior to the separation, ebay transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities and operations of ebay's payments business to paypal, which was completed in june 2015. available information the address of our principal executive offices is paypal holdings, inc., 2211 north first street, san jose, california 95131. our website is located at www.paypal.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investor.paypal-corp.com. from time to time, we may use our investor relations site and other online and social media channels, including our paypal stories blog (https://www.paypal.com/stories/us), twitter handles (@paypal and @paypalnews), linkedin page (https://www.linkedin.com/company/paypal), facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/paypalusa/), youtube channel (https://www.youtube.com/paypal), dan schulman's linkedin profile (https://www.linkedin.com/in/dan-schulman/), john rainey's linkedin profile (www.linkedin.com/in/john-rainey-pypl), bill ready's linkedin profile (https://www.linkedin.com/in/williamready/), and dan schulman's facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/danschulmanpaypal/) to disclose material non-public information and comply with our disclosure obligations under regulation fair disclosure. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. the content of our websites and information we may post on or provide to online and social media channels, including those mentioned above, and information that can be accessed through our websites or these online and social media channels is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k or in any other report or document we file with the sec, and any references to our websites or these online and social media channels are intended to be inactive textual references only. item 1a. risk factors the following discussion is divided into three sections. the first section, which begins immediately following this paragraph, discusses some of the risks that may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the second section, captioned risks related to our separation from ebay discusses some of the risks relating to our separation from ebay in july 2015 into an independent publicly traded company. the third section, captioned risks related to our common stock, discusses some of the risks relating to an investment in our common stock. you should carefully review all of these sections in addition to the other information appearing in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, for important information regarding risks and uncertainties that affect us. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. 11 table of contents risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry. the global payments industry is highly competitive, rapidly changing, highly innovative, and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny. we compete against a wide range of businesses, including businesses that are larger than we are, have a more dominant and secure position, or offer other products and services to consumers and merchants that we do not offer, as well as smaller companies that may be able to respond more quickly to regulatory and technological changes. many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. competition may also intensify as businesses enter into business combinations and alliances, and established companies in other segments expand to become competitive with different aspects of our business. we compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain, and engage both merchants and consumers with our two-sided platform; ability to demonstrate to merchants that they may achieve incremental sales by using and offering our services to consumers; consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions on our payments platform, including the ability for consumers to use our products and services without sharing their financial information with the merchant or any other party they are paying; simplicity and transparency of our fee structure; ability to develop products and services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments, credit products, and payments at the retail point of sale; trust in our dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service experience; brand recognition and preference; website, mobile platform and application onboarding, ease-of-use, speed, availability, and dependability; the technology and payment agnostic nature of our payments platform; system reliability and data security; ability to assist merchants in complying with payments-related laws and regulations ; ease and quality of integration into third-party mobile applications and operating systems; and quality of developer tools, such as our application programming interfaces and software development kits. we compete against a wide range of businesses with varying roles in all forms of payments, including: paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks); providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit and debit cards and automated clearing house transactions (in particular, well-established banks); payment networks which facilitate payments for credit card users; providers of digital wallets which offer customers the ability to pay online and/or in-store through a variety of payment methods, including with mobile applications, through contactless payments, and with a variety of payment cards; providers of mobile payments solutions that use tokenized card data approaches and contactless payments (e.g., near field communication ( nfc ) or host card emulation functionality) to eliminate the need to swipe or insert a card or enter a personal identification number or password; payment-card processors that offer their services to merchants, including for card on file payments where the merchant invites the consumer to select a payment method for their first transaction and to use the same payment method for subsequent transactions; providers of person-to-person payments that facilitate individuals sending money with an email address or mobile phone number; merchants and merchant associations providing proprietary payment networks to facilitate payments within their own retail network; money remitters; providers of card readers for mobile devices and of other point-of-sale and multi-channel technologies; and providers of virtual currencies and distributed ledger technologies. we often partner with many of these businesses and we consider the ability to continue establishing these partnerships as important to our business. competition for relationships with these partners is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to establish, grow, or maintain these partner relationships. 12 table of contents we also face competition and potential competition from: service providers that provide online merchants the ability to offer their customers the option of paying for purchases from their bank account or paying on credit; issuers of stored value products targeted at online payments; other global online and mobile payment-services providers; services targeting users of social networks and online gaming, including those offering social commerce and peer-to-peer payments; payment services enabling banking customers to send and receive payments through their bank account, including through immediate or real-time payments systems; ecommerce services that provide special offers linked to a specific payment provider; services that help merchants accept and manage virtual currencies; and electronic funds transfer services as a method of payment for both online and offline transactions. some of these competitors have larger customer bases, volume, scale, resources, and market share than we do, which may provide them significant competitive advantages. some of our competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, and other regulatory requirements. they may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services, and they may offer lower prices or more effectively introduce their own innovative programs, products, and services that adversely impact our growth. if we are not able to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors, drive value for our customers, or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively in the market. substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come primarily from transactions involving payments during that quarter, which may result in significant fluctuations in our operating results that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock. substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come primarily from transactions involving payments during that quarter. as a result, our operating and financial results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history, and may continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including as a result of the risks set forth in this risk factors section. it is difficult for us to forecast accurately the level or source of our revenues or earnings. in view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast expenses as a percentage of net revenues. quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of net revenues reflected in our financial statements may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. the trading price of our common stock may decline significantly as a result of the factors described in this paragraph. global and regional economic conditions could harm our business. our operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions. uncertainty about global and regional economic events and conditions may result in consumers and businesses postponing or lowering spending in response to, among other factors: tighter credit, higher unemployment, consumer debt levels or reduced consumer confidence. financial market volatility, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, changes and uncertainties related to government fiscal and tax policies, including increased duties, tariffs, or other restrictions, the inability of the u.s. congress to enact a budget in a fiscal year, another sequestration, and/or another shutdown of the u.s. government, government austerity programs, and other negative financial news or macroeconomic developments. 13 table of contents these and other global and regional economic events and conditions, including brexit, could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and services, including a reduction in the volume and size of transactions on our payments platform. in addition, any financial turmoil affecting the banking system or financial markets could cause additional consolidation of the financial services industry, significant financial service institution failures, new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility or distress in the fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. see also the risk factor captioned, the united kingdom's departure from the eu could adversely affect us. if we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative products and services, the use of our products and services and, consequently, our revenues could decline. rapid, significant, and disruptive technological changes impact the industries in which we operate, including developments in payment card tokenization, cryptocurrencies, mobile, social commerce (i.e., ecommerce through social networks), authentication, virtual currencies (including distributed ledger and blockchain technologies), and nfc and other proximity payment technology, such as contactless payments. as a result, we expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve, and we cannot predict the effects of technological changes on our business. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors, for the development of and access to new or evolving technologies. these third parties may restrict or prevent our access to, or utilization of, those technologies, as well as their platforms or products. in addition, we may not be able to accurately predict which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted and how those technologies may be regulated. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge and may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. developing and incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures, take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. in addition, our ability to adopt new products and services and to develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, payments networks, changes to laws and regulations, resistance to change from consumers or merchants, third-party intellectual property rights, or other factors. our success will depend on our ability to develop and incorporate new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards; if we are unable to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could result in serious harm to our reputation, business, and financial condition. our business involves the collection, storage, processing, and transmission of customers' personal data, including financial information and information about how they interact with our payments platform. in addition, a significant number of our customers authorize us to bill their payment cards or bank accounts directly for all transaction and other fees charged by us. we have built our reputation on the premise that our payments platform offers customers a more secure way to make payments. an increasing number of organizations, including large merchants, businesses, technology companies, and financial institutions, as well as government institutions, have disclosed breaches of their information security systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks, including on their websites, mobile applications, and infrastructure. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized, improper, or illegal access to our systems, our data or customers' data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly evolving and have become increasingly complex and sophisticated, may be difficult to detect quickly, and often are not recognized or detected until after they have been launched against a target. we expect that unauthorized parties will continue to attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including hacking into our systems or facilities or those of our customers, partners, or vendors, or attempting to fraudulently induce (for example, through spear phishing attacks) our employees, customers, partners, vendors, or other users of our systems into disclosing user names, passwords, payment card information, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. certain efforts may be state-sponsored and supported by significant financial and technological resources, making them even more sophisticated and difficult to detect. numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced and persisting cyberattacks, phishing and social engineering schemes, could compromise the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the data in our systems. we believe that paypal is a particularly attractive target for such breaches and attacks due to our name and brand recognition and the widespread adoption and use of our products and services. although we have developed systems and processes designed to protect our data and customer data and to prevent data loss and other security breaches, and expect to continue to expend significant resources to bolster these protections, there can be no assurance that these security measures provide absolute security. our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security breaches, and third parties may be able to access our customers' personal or proprietary information and payment card data that are stored on or accessible through those systems. we have experienced from time to time, and may experience in the future, breaches of our security measures due to human error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, or other irregularities. actual or perceived breaches of our security could, among other things: 14 table of contents interrupt our operations, result in our systems or services being unavailable, result in improper disclosure of data, materially harm our reputation and brands, result in significant regulatory scrutiny and legal and financial exposure, cause us to incur significant remediation costs, lead to loss of customer confidence in, or decreased use of, our products and services, divert the attention of management from the operation of our business, result in significant compensation or contractual penalties from us to our customers and their business partners as a result of losses to them or claims by them, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. in addition, any cyberattacks or data security breaches affecting companies that we acquire or our customers, partners, or vendors (including data center and cloud computing providers) could have similar negative effects. see note 4 business combinations, note 5 goodwill and intangible assets and note 13 commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements for disclosure relating to the suspension of operations of tio networks ( tio ) (which we acquired in july 2017) as part of an investigation of security vulnerability of the tio platform. actual or perceived vulnerabilities or data breaches have led and may lead to claims against us. in addition, under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, or that is stored by our direct payment card processing vendors, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. we also expect to expend significant additional resources to protect against security or privacy breaches, and may be required to redress problems caused by breaches. financial services regulators in various jurisdictions, including the u.s. and the eu, have implemented authentication requirements for banks and payment processors intended to reduce online fraud, which could impose significant costs, require us to change our business practices, make it more difficult for new customers to join paypal, and reduce the ease of use of our products, which could harm our business. while we maintain insurance policies, they may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products, or services could harm our business. our systems and those of our services providers and partners may experience service interruptions or degradation because of hardware and software defects or malfunctions, distributed denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, and other natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. we have experienced from time to time, and may experience in the future, disruptions in our systems due to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. in addition, as a provider of payments solutions, we are subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators that may require specific business continuity, resiliency and disaster recovery plans, and more rigorous testing of such plans, which may be costly and time-consuming and may divert our resources from other business priorities. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience system failures, denial-of-service attacks, and other events or conditions from time to time that interrupt the availability, or reduce or adversely affect the speed or functionality of our products and services. these events have resulted and likely will result in loss of revenue. a prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the availability, speed, or functionality of our products and services could materially harm our business. frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential customers to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid or reduce the use of our products and services, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. moreover, if any system failure or similar event results in damages to our customers or their business partners, these customers or partners could seek significant compensation or contractual penalties from us for their losses, and those claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address, and could have other consequences described in this risk factors section under the caption cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could result in serious harm to our reputation, business, results of operation, and financial condition. 15 table of contents our payments platform has experienced and may in the future experience intermittent unavailability. the full-time availability and expeditious delivery of our products and services is critical to our goal of gaining widespread acceptance among consumers and merchants for digital payments. we have undertaken certain system upgrades and re-platforming efforts designed to improve our reliability and speed. these efforts are costly and time-consuming, involve significant technical risk and may divert our resources from new features and products, and there can be no guarantee that these efforts will succeed. because we are a regulated financial institution in certain jurisdictions, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to regulatory scrutiny, significant fines and penalties, and mandatory and costly changes to our business practices, and ultimately could cause us to lose existing licenses that we need to operate or prevent or delay us from obtaining additional licenses that may be required for our business. we also rely on facilities, components, and services supplied by third parties, including data center facilities and cloud storage services. if these third parties cease to provide the facilities or services, experience operational interference or disruptions, breach their agreements with us, fail to perform their obligations and meet our expectations, or experience a cybersecurity incident, our operations could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which could result in customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation and brands, and materially and adversely affect our business. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for all losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. in addition, we are continually improving and upgrading our information systems and technologies. implementation of new systems and technologies is complex, expensive, and time-consuming. if we fail to timely and successfully implement new information systems and technologies, or improvements or upgrades to existing information systems and technologies, or if such systems and technologies do not operate as intended, this could have an adverse impact on our business, internal controls (including internal controls over financial reporting), results of operations, and financial condition. changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm our business. we rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions and pay fees for their services. from time to time, payment card networks have increased, and may continue to increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction that accesses their networks. payment card networks have imposed, and may impose in the future, special fees or assessments for transactions that are executed through a digital wallet such as paypal's, which could particularly impact us and significantly increase our costs. our payment card processors may have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to us as well as increase their own fees for processing, which could increase our operating costs and reduce our operating income. we have entered into strategic partnerships with visa and mastercard and other credit card networks to further expand our relationships in a way that will make it easier for merchants to accept and consumers to choose to pay with their respective credit and debit cards. during the terms of these agreements, visa and mastercard have each agreed to not enact or impose any fees or rules that solely target paypal. upon termination of the agreements, paypal could become subject to special digital wallet fees or other special assessments. in addition, in some jurisdictions, governmental regulations have required payment card networks to reduce interchange fees. any material change in credit or debit card interchange rates in the u.s. or other markets, including as a result of changes in interchange fee limitations, could adversely affect our competitive position against traditional credit and debit card service providers and our business. we are required to comply with payment card network operating rules, including special operating rules for payment service providers to merchants. we have agreed to reimburse our processors for any fines they are assessed by payment card networks as a result of any rule violations by us or our merchants. we may also be directly liable to the payment card networks for rule violations. the payment card networks set and interpret the card operating rules and have alleged from time to time that various aspects of our business model violate these operating rules. if such allegations are not resolved favorably, they may result in significant fines and penalties or require changes in our business practices that may be costly. the payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or re-interpret existing rules that we or our processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or costly to implement. as a result, we could lose our ability to give consumers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or the choice of currency in which they would like their payment card to be charged. if we are unable to accept payment cards or are limited in our ability to do so, our business would be adversely affected. 16 table of contents we and our payment card processors have implemented specific business processes for merchants to comply with payment card network operating rules for providing services to merchants. any failure to comply with these rules could result in fines. we are also subject to fines from payment card networks if we fail to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or that are considered high risk, including the sale of certain types of digital content. for high risk merchants, we must either prevent such merchants from using paypal services or register such merchants with the payment card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. although the amount of these fines has not been material to date, additional fines in the future could become significant and could result in a termination of our ability to accept payment cards or require changes in our process for registering new customers, which would adversely affect our business. payment card network rules may also increase the cost of, impose restrictions on, or otherwise negatively impact the development of, our retail point-of-sale solutions, which may negatively impact their deployment and adoption. failure to deal effectively with fraud, fictitious transactions, bad transactions, and negative customer experiences would increase our loss rate and harm our business, and could severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services. our operations process a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis. in the event that merchants do not fulfill their obligations to consumers or a merchant's goods or services do not match the merchant's description, we may incur substantial losses as a result of claims from consumers. we seek to recover such losses from the merchant, but may not be able to recover in full if the merchant is unwilling or unable to pay. in addition, in the event of the bankruptcy or other business interruption of a merchant that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (e.g., airline, cruise or concert tickets, custom-made goods, and subscriptions), we could be liable to the buyers of such goods or services, either through our buyer protection program or through chargebacks on payment cards used by customers to fund their payment. while we have established allowances for transaction losses based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such losses incurred as of the reporting date, these reserves may be insufficient. we also incur substantial losses from claims that the consumer did not authorize the purchase, from customer fraud, from erroneous transactions, and as a result of customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in their bank accounts to satisfy payments. in addition, if losses incurred by us related to payment card transactions become excessive, they could potentially result in our losing the right to accept payment cards for payment, which would harm our business. we have taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against fraud, particularly new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. if these measures do not succeed, our business could be harmed. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could materially and adversely affect our financial results. we have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, including the british pound, euro, australian dollar, and canadian dollar, which subject us to foreign currency risk. the strengthening or weakening of the u.s. dollar versus the british pound, euro, australian dollar, and canadian dollar impacts the translation of our net revenues generated in these foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. in connection with providing our services in multiple currencies, we may face financial exposure if we incorrectly set our foreign exchange rates or as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the times that we set them. given that we also hold some corporate and customer funds in non-u.s. currencies, our financial results are affected by the remeasurement of these non-u.s. currencies into u.s. dollars. we also have foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. while we regularly enter into transactions to hedge foreign currency risk for portions of our foreign currency translation and balance sheet exposure, it is impossible to predict or eliminate the effects of this exposure. any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business. cross-border trade (i.e., transactions where the merchant and consumer are in different countries) is an important source of our revenue and profits. cross-border transactions generally provide higher revenues and operating income than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. cross-border trade also represents our primary (and in some cases, our only) presence in certain important markets. 17 table of contents cross-border trade is subject to, and may be negatively impacted by, foreign exchange rate fluctuations. in addition, the interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the merchant and of the consumer) are often extremely complicated in the context of cross-border trade. changes to or the interpretation and/or application of laws and regulations applicable to cross-border trade could impose additional requirements and restrictions, impose conflicting obligations, and increase the costs associated with cross-border trade. any factors that increase the costs of cross-border trade for us or our customers or that restrict, delay, or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical, such as trade policy or higher tariffs, could negatively impact our revenues and profits and harm our business. see also the risk factor captioned, global and regional economic conditions could harm our business. changes in how consumers fund their paypal transactions could harm our business. we pay transaction fees when consumers fund payment transactions using credit cards, lower fees when consumers fund payments with debit cards, and nominal fees when consumers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, or from an existing paypal account balance or through our paypal branded consumer credit products. our financial success is sensitive to changes in the rate at which our consumers fund payments using credit and debit cards (collectively, payment cards ), which can significantly increase our costs. although we provide consumers with the opportunity to use their existing paypal account balance to fund payment transactions, some of our consumers may prefer to use payment cards, especially if these payment cards offer features and benefits that are not provided as part of their paypal accounts. an increase in the portion of our payment volume funded using payment cards or in fees associated with our funding mix, or other events or developments that make it more difficult or costly for us to fund transactions with lower-cost funding options, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business. we have entered into strategic partnerships with major payment card networks and/or issuing banks to promote greater consumer choice and make it easier for merchants to accept and consumers to pay with these partners' credit and/or debt cards and to allow us to gain access to these partners' tokenization services for in-store point of sale paypal transactions. these arrangements may have an uncertain impact on our business. while we anticipate that these and similar strategic partnerships we may enter into in the future will result in an increase in the number of transactions and transaction volume that we process, we also anticipate that a greater percentage of customer transactions will be executed using a payment card, which would likely increase the transaction costs associated with our funding mix, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and profitability. the united kingdom's departure from the eu could adversely affect us. the united kingdom ( u.k. ) held a referendum in june 2016 in which a majority of voters approved an exit from the european union ( eu ) (commonly referred to as brexit ). in march 2017, the u.k. government initiated the exit process under article 50 of the treaty on european union, which commenced a two-year period expiring on march 29, 2019, after which time the u.k. is expected to leave the eu in the absence of any effective extension to the article 50 period. political negotiations are underway; however, there is a significant lack of clarity over the terms of the u.k.'s exit from the eu and the terms of the u.k.'s future relationship with the eu. the u.k.'s financial service regulators are implementing temporary permission regimes that are expected to be put in place by the u.k.'s government to support european economic area ( eea ) financial services firms in continuing to conduct business in the u.k. should the u.k. exit the eu without an agreement. brexit could adversely affect u.k., regional (including european), and worldwide economic and market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the british pound and euro, which in turn could adversely affect us or our customers and companies with which we do business, particularly in the u.k. brexit could lead to greater restrictions on the supply and availability of goods and services between the u.k and the eea region, with the potential inability of u.k. companies to fulfill orders leading in turn to a risk of increased merchant defaults and buyer protection claims. brexit could also trigger a general deterioration in credit conditions, a downturn in consumer sentiment and overall negative economic growth. any of these scenarios could have an adverse effect on our business or our customers. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and increased complexity for financial services firms as national laws and regulations in the u.k. start to diverge from eu laws and regulations. in particular, depending on the terms of brexit, we may face new regulatory costs and challenges, including the following: if we are unable to utilize appropriate authorizations and regulator permissions, our eu operations could lose their ability to offer services on a cross-border basis into the u.k. market and for our u.k. based operations to offer services on a cross-border basis in the eea markets. for example, our ability to work primarily with the luxembourg regulator as the lead authority for various aspects of our u.k. operations may also be impacted; 18 table of contents we could be required to obtain additional regulatory permissions to operate in the u.k. market, adding costs and potential inconsistency to our business (and, depending on the capacity of the u.k. authorities, the criteria for obtaining permission, and any possible transitional arrangements, there is a risk that our business in the u.k. could be materially affected or disrupted); we could be required to comply with regulatory requirements in the u.k. that are in addition to, or inconsistent with, the regulatory requirements of the eu, leading to increased complexity and costs for our eu and uk operations; and our ability to attract and retain the necessary human resources in appropriate locations to support the u.k. business and the eu business of paypal could be adversely impacted. these and other factors related to brexit could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. our failure to comply with extensive, complex, overlapping, and frequently changing rules, regulations, and legal interpretations could materially harm our business. our business is subject to laws, rules, regulations, policies, and legal interpretations in the markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, those governing: banking, credit, deposit taking, cross-border and domestic money transmission, prepaid access, foreign exchange, privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, banking secrecy, payment services (including payment processing and settlement services), consumer protection, economic and trade sanctions, anti-money laundering, and counter-terrorist financing. our success and increased visibility may result in increased regulatory oversight and enforcement and more restrictive rules and regulations that apply to our business. as we expand and localize our international activities, we have become increasingly obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. in addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and provide services to customers worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our customers are required to comply with their laws. laws regulating the internet, mobile, and related technologies outside of the u.s. often impose different, more specific, or even conflicting obligations on us, as well as broader liability. for example, certain transactions that may be permissible in a local jurisdiction may be prohibited by regulations of u.s. department of treasury's office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) or u.s. anti-money laundering or counter-terrorist financing regulations. any failure or perceived failure to comply with existing or new laws, regulations, or orders of any governmental authority (including changes to or expansion of the interpretation of those laws, regulations, or orders), including those discussed in this risk factor, may subject us to significant fines, penalties, criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, and enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions, result in additional compliance and licensure requirements, increase regulatory scrutiny of our business, restrict our operations, and force us to change our business practices, make product or operational changes, or delay planned product launches or improvements. any of the foregoing could, individually or in the aggregate, harm our reputation, damage our brands and business, and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the complexity of u.s. federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes, coupled with the global scope of our operations and the evolving global regulatory environment, could result in a single event giving rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and legal and regulatory proceedings by multiple government authorities in different jurisdictions. we have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations. 19 table of contents payments regulation in the u.s., paypal, inc. has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent) in the states where such licenses are required, as well as in the district of columbia, the u.s. virgin islands, and puerto rico. these licenses include not only the paypal branded products and services in these states, but also our braintree, venmo, and xoom products and services. we may also maintain such licenses for certain companies that we have recently acquired, such as hyperwallet. as a licensed money transmitter, paypal is subject to restrictions with respect to the investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. accordingly, if we violate these laws or regulations, we could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change our business practices, or required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals, which could impose substantial costs. while we currently allow our customers with payment cards to send payments from approximately 200 markets, we allow customers in only approximately half of those markets (including the u.s.) to also receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can withdraw funds. these limitations may adversely affect our ability to grow our business in these markets. we principally provide our services to customers in the eu through paypal (europe) s.a.r.l. et cie., sca ( paypal (europe) ), our wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a credit institution in luxembourg. accordingly, paypal (europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, fund management, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, information security, banking secrecy, taxation, sanctions, or other requirements imposed on luxembourg banks. in addition, eu laws and regulations are typically subject to different and potentially inconsistent interpretations by the countries that are members of the eu, which can make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. moreover, the countries that are eu members may each have different and potentially inconsistent domestic regulations implementing european directives, including the eu payment services directive and the e-money directive, which could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. the revised payment services directive ( psd2 ) entered into force in january 2016 and is in the process of being implemented into national legislation, with certain requirements effective january 13, 2018. however, a number of eu member states have not yet fully implemented psd2 into domestic legislation. luxembourg, which is the home member state of paypal (europe), implemented psd2 on july 28, 2018. the implementation of psd2 may negatively affect our business. psd2 seeks to enable new payment models whereby a newly formed category of regulated payment provider would be able to access bank and payment accounts (including paypal accounts) for the purposes of accessing account information or initiating a payment on behalf of a customer. such access could subject us to data security and other legal and financial risks and could create new competitive forces and new types of competitors in the european payments market. psd2 seeks to regulate more online platforms that handle payments for their sellers. paypal merchants with affected business models which are not licensed, or which do not benefit from exemptions or integrate a compliant marketplaces solution may not be able to offer paypal products in the future. psd2 also imposes new standards (coming into force on september 14, 2019) for payment security and strong customer authentication that may make it more difficult and time consuming to carry out a paypal transaction, which may adversely impact paypal's customer value proposition and its european business. if the business activities of paypal (europe) exceed certain thresholds, or if the european central bank ( ecb ) so determines, paypal (europe) may be deemed a significant supervised entity such that some activity of paypal (europe) could become directly regulated by the ecb rather than the luxembourg regulator (the cssf ), as its national supervisor, which could subject us to additional requirements and would likely increase compliance costs. in many of the other markets outside the u.s. in which we do business, we serve our customers through paypal pte. ltd., our wholly-owned subsidiary based in singapore. paypal pte. ltd. is supervised by the monetary authority of singapore and designated as a holder of a stored value facility, but does not hold a remittance license. as a result, paypal pte. ltd. is not able to offer outbound remittance payments (including donations to charities) from singapore, and can only offer payments for the purchase of goods and services in singapore. in many of the markets (other than singapore) served by paypal pte. ltd., it is unclear and uncertain whether our singapore-based service is subject only to singapore law or, if it is subject to the application of local laws, whether such local laws would require a payment processor like us to be licensed as a payments service, bank, financial institution, or otherwise. payment services legislation currently pending in singapore may change how paypal pte. ltd is regulated and, if such legislation is passed, our compliance and operating costs will likely increase. in certain markets outside the u.s. (e.g., australia), we provide our services to customers through a local subsidiary subject to local regulatory supervision or oversight, which may be the holder of a local payment license, certification, or other authorization. in such markets, we may be subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if we violate applicable reporting, anti-money laundering, capital requirements, privacy, corporation governance, risk management, or any other applicable requirements. 20 table of contents we have been, and expect to continue to be, required to apply for various licenses, certifications, and regulatory approvals in a number of the jurisdictions where we provide our services, including due to changes in applicable laws and regulations or the interpretation of such laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to (or decide to) obtain any such licenses, certifications, and approvals. in addition, there are substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining and renewing such licenses, certifications, and approvals, and we could be subject to fines or other enforcement action if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance, or other requirements of such licenses. these factors could impose substantial additional costs, involve considerable delay to the development or provision of our products or services, require significant and costly operational changes, or prevent us from providing our products or services in a given market. in many countries, it may not be clear whether we are required to be licensed as a payment services provider, bank, financial institution, or otherwise. in such markets, we may rely on local banks to process payments and conduct foreign exchange transactions in local currency. local regulators may use their power to slow or halt payments to local merchants conducted through local banks or otherwise prohibit or impede us from doing business in a jurisdiction. such regulatory actions or the need to obtain licenses, certifications, or other regulatory approvals could impose substantial costs, involve considerable delay to the provision or development of our services, require significant and costly operational changes, impose restrictions, limitations, or additional requirements on our business, or prevent us from providing any products or services in a given market. consumer protection we are subject to consumer protection laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. in the u.s., we are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations applicable to our activities, including the electronic fund transfer act ( efta ) and regulation e as implemented by the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ). these regulations require us to provide advance disclosure of changes to our services, follow specified error resolution procedures, and reimburse consumers for losses from certain transactions not authorized by the consumer, among other requirements. additionally, technical violations of consumer protection laws could result in the assessment of actual damages or statutory damages or penalties of up to $1,000 in individual cases or up to $500,000 per violation in any class action and treble damages in some instances; we could also be liable for plaintiffs' attorneys' fees in such cases. we are subject to, and have paid amounts in settlement of, lawsuits containing allegations that our business violated the efta and regulation e or otherwise advance claims for relief relating to our business practices (e.g., that we improperly held consumer funds or otherwise improperly limited consumer accounts). in october 2016, the cfpb issued a final rule on prepaid accounts. the rule's definition of prepaid account includes certain accounts that are capable of being loaded with funds and whose primary function is to conduct transactions with multiple, unaffiliated merchants, at atms and/or for person-to-person transfers, including certain digital wallets. the rule's requirements include: the disclosure of fees and other information to the consumer prior to the creation of a prepaid account; the extension of regulation e liability limits and error-resolution requirements to all prepaid accounts; the application of regulation z credit card requirements to prepaid accounts with overdraft and credit features; and the submission of prepaid account agreements to the cfpb and their publication to the general public. in april 2017, the cfpb delayed the effective date of the final rule on prepaid accounts to april 1, 2018, and indicated that it would review, among other issues, the linking of credit cards to digital wallets that are capable of storing funds. in june 2017, the cfpb released proposed changes to its final rule, and in january 2018, the cfpb issued its final rule, modifying some aspects of the rule, with an overall effective date of april 1, 2019. we are in the process of implementing certain changes to comply with the final rule. we expect that such implementation will require us to make substantial changes to the design of certain u.s. consumer accounts and their operability, which could lead to customer dissatisfaction, require us to reallocate resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business. in may 2015, we entered into a stipulated final judgment and consent order ( consent order ) with the cfpb in which we settled regulatory claims arising from paypal credit practices between 2011 and 2015. the consent order included obligations on paypal to pay $15 million in redress to consumers and a $10 million civil monetary penalty, and required paypal to make various changes to paypal credit disclosures and related business practices. we continue to cooperate and engage with the cfpb and work to ensure compliance with the consent order, which may result in us incurring additional costs. paypal (europe) principally offers its services in eu countries through a passport notification process through the luxembourg regulator to regulators in other eu member states pursuant to eu regulations. regulators in these countries could notify paypal (europe) of local consumer protection laws that apply to its business, in addition to luxembourg consumer protection law, and could also seek to persuade the luxembourg regulator to order paypal (europe) to conduct its or the paypal group's activities in the local country directly or through a branch office. these or similar actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, our plans to expand our business in eu countries. 21 table of contents economic and trade sanctions we are required to comply with u.s. economic and trade sanctions administered by ofac and the council of the european union, respectively. we have self-reported to ofac certain transactions that were inadvertently processed but subsequently identified as possible violations of u.s. economic and trade sanctions. in march 2015, we reached a settlement with ofac regarding possible violations arising from our sanctions compliance practices between 2009 and 2013, prior to the implementation of our real-time transaction scanning program. subsequently, we have self-reported additional transactions as possible violations, and we have received new subpoenas from ofac seeking additional information about certain of these transactions. such self-reported transactions could result in claims or actions against us, including litigation, injunctions, damage awards, fines or penalties, or require us to change our business practices in a manner that could result in a material loss, require significant management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or otherwise harm our business. anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing we are subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, our involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. regulators in the u.s. and other regulators globally continue to increase their scrutiny of compliance with these obligations, which may require us to further revise or expand our compliance program, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of our customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. many countries in which we operate also have anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and we have been and will continue to be required to make changes to our compliance program in various jurisdictions in response. regulators regularly re-examine the transaction volume thresholds at which we must obtain and keep applicable records or verify identities of customers and any change in such thresholds could result in greater costs for compliance. in the eu, the implementation of the fourth anti-money laundering directive and the regulation on information accompanying transfer of funds (commonly known as the revised wire transfer regulation) may make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage, lead to increased friction for customers, and result in a decrease in business. penalties for non-compliance with the fourth anti-money laundering directive could include fines of up to 10% of paypal (europe)'s total annual turnover. on april 19, 2018, the european parliament adopted the european commission's proposal for a fifth anti-money laundering directive, containing more stringent provisions in certain areas, which may also increase compliance costs. privacy and protection of user data we are subject to a number of laws, rules, directives, and regulations (which we refer to as privacy laws ) relating to the collection, use, retention, security, processing, and transfer (which we refer to as process ) of personally identifiable information about our customers and employees (which we refer to as personal data ) in the countries where we operate. our business relies on the processing of data in many jurisdictions and the movement of data across national borders. as a result, much of the personal data that we process, especially financial information, is regulated by multiple privacy laws and, in some cases, the privacy laws of multiple jurisdictions. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between or among us, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relationships. regulatory scrutiny of privacy, data protection, and the collection, storage, use, and sharing of personal data is increasing around the world. there is uncertainty associated with the legal and regulatory environment relating to privacy and data protection laws, which continue to develop in ways we cannot predict, including with respect to evolving technologies such as cloud computing and blockchain technology. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our privacy policies and communicated to users prior to our collection, use, storage and transfer, and disclosure of their personal data, with applicable industry data protection or security standards, with any applicable regulatory requirements or orders, or with privacy, data protection, information security, or consumer protection-related laws and regulations in one or more jurisdictions could result in proceedings or actions against us by data protection authorities (which we refer to as supervisory authorities ), governmental entities or others, including class action privacy litigation in certain jurisdictions, would subject us to significant awards, fines, penalties, judgments, and negative publicity arising from any financial or non-financial damages suffered by any individuals. this could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. specifically, this would likely require us to change our business practices, and would increase the costs and complexity of compliance. in addition, compliance with inconsistent privacy laws may restrict our ability to provide products and services to our customers. 22 table of contents paypal relies on a variety of compliance methods to transfer personal data of eu citizens to the u.s., including reliance on binding corporate rules ( bcrs ) for internal transfers of certain types of personal data and standard contractual clauses ( sccs ) as approved by the european commission for transfers to and from third parties. paypal must also ensure that third parties processing personal data of paypal's eu customers and/or employees outside of the eu have compliant transfer mechanisms. in october 2015, the european court of justice invalidated u.s.-eu safe harbor framework clauses that were previously relied upon by some paypal vendors to lawfully transfer personal data of eu citizens to u.s. companies, and paypal entered into sccs with those third parties who had previously relied on the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework. in july 2016, the u.s. and eu authorities agreed on a replacement for safe harbor known as privacy shield. both the privacy shield framework and sccs are facing legal challenges in the european justice system. to the extent that the privacy shield or sccs are invalidated, paypal's ability to process eu personal data with third parties outside of the eu could be jeopardized. in 2016, the eu adopted the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018. the eu data protection regime expands the scope of the eu data protection law to all foreign companies processing personal data of eu residents, imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with severe penalties of up to the greater of 4% of worldwide turnover or 20 million, and includes new rights such as the portability of personal data. although the gdpr applies across the eu without a need for local implementing legislation, each eu member state has the ability to interpret the gdpr opening clauses, which permit region-specific data protection legislation and have the potential to create inconsistencies on a country-by-country basis. implementation of the gdpr has required us to change our business practices and increased the costs and complexity of compliance. paypal also faces additional potential challenges from local data protection agencies ( dpas ). because paypal (europe) is headquartered in luxembourg and subject to regulation as a bank in that jurisdiction, we have relied on the one-stop-shop concept under which luxembourg has been our lead data protection regulator in the eu. however, a 2015 european court of justice ruling (weltimmo) affecting companies that do business in the eu potentially could make us subject to the local data protection laws or regulatory enforcement activities of the various eu member states in which we have established legal entities and which apply privacy laws that are different than, and may conflict with, luxembourg privacy laws. in addition, because of the large number of text messages, emails, phone calls, and other communications we send or make to our customers for various business purposes, communication-related privacy laws that provide a specified monetary damage award or fine for each violation could result in particularly significant damage awards or fines. for example, under the telephone consumer protection act ( tcpa ), in the u.s., plaintiffs may seek actual monetary loss or statutory damages of $500 per violation, whichever is greater, and courts may triple the damage award for willful or knowing violations. we have been, and may continue to be subject to lawsuits (including class-action lawsuits) containing allegations that our business violated the tcpa. these lawsuits seek damages (including statutory damages) and injunctive relief, among other remedies. given the large number of communications we send to our customers, a determination that there have been violations of the tcpa or other communications-based statutes could expose us to significant damage awards that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their financial or performance obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents, and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the u.s. and abroad. as part of our currency hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments with various financial institutions. certain banks and financial institutions are also lenders under our credit facilities. we regularly monitor our exposure to counterparty credit risk, and actively manage this exposure to mitigate the associated risk. despite these efforts, we may be exposed to the risk of default by, or deteriorating operating results or financial condition or failure of, these counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default, deterioration, or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to access or recover our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 23 table of contents paypal is not a bank or licensed lender in the u.s. and relies upon third parties to make loans and provide other products critical to our business, which raises additional risks. as paypal is neither a chartered financial institution, nor licensed to make loans in any state in the u.s., we rely on third-party chartered financial institutions to provide paypal branded credit products to our customers in the u.s., including consumer credits products such as paypal credit and paypal branded mastercard credit cards, and business credit products such as paypal working capital and paypal business loan products. any termination or interruption in a partner bank's ability or willingness to lend could interrupt, potentially materially, our ability to offer consumer and business loan products, which could materially and adversely affect our business. in the event of a partner bank's inability or unwillingness to lend, we may need to reach a similar agreement with another chartered financial institution or obtain our own bank charter or lending licenses. we may be unable to reach a similar agreement with another partner on favorable terms or at all. obtaining a bank charter or lending licenses would be a costly, time-consuming and uncertain process, and would subject us to additional laws and regulatory requirements, which could be burdensome, increase our costs, and require us to change our business practices. in addition, as a service provider to these bank partners, which are federally supervised u.s. financial institutions, we are subject from time to time to examination by their federal banking regulators. in july 2018, we completed the sale of our u.s. consumer credit receivables portfolio to synchrony bank, for total consideration of $6.9 billion. the purchase price is subject to a post-closing true-up and certain other adjustments under the terms of the purchase agreement. as a part of a separate agreement, paypal earns a revenue share on the portfolio of consumer receivables owned by synchrony bank, which includes both the sold and newly generated receivables and we will not hold an ownership interest in newly generated consumer credit receivables. it may take us longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. in addition, our increased reliance on synchrony bank subjects us to risks in the nature of those discussed in this risk factors section under the caption we rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, which creates additional risk . our ability to receive the benefit of our business finance offerings may be subject to challenge. business loans under our paypal working capital and paypal business loan products are provided by a state chartered industrial bank under a program agreement with us. we acquire the receivables generated by those loans after they are originated. a case decided in the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit, madden v. midland funding, llc ( 786 f.3d 246 (2d cir. 2015)), resulted in some uncertainty as to whether non-bank entities purchasing loans originated by a bank may rely on federal preemption of state usury laws, and may create an increased risk of litigation by plaintiffs challenging our ability to collect interest and fees in accordance with the terms of certain loans. although the decision specifically addressed preemption under the national bank act, this decision could support future challenges to federal preemption for other institutions, including fdic-insured, state chartered industrial banks like the issuing bank of loans under paypal working capital and paypal business loan products. after the madden decision, there continue to be a number of u.s. state and federal court legal actions challenging the viability of business models where a non-bank entity enters into a relationship with a third-party chartered financial institution for the issuance of credit products. while we believe the manner in which paypal branded credit products are offered can be distinguished from madden , there can be no assurance as to the outcome of any potential litigation, and an adverse determination could materially and adversely impact our paypal working capital and paypal business loan products and our business. some of our credit products expose us to additional risks. we offer our paypal credit consumer product and our paypal working capital and paypal business loan products to a wide range of consumers and merchants in various markets, and the financial success of these products depends on the effective management of related risk. the credit decisioning process for the paypal credit consumer product in markets outside the u.s. uses proprietary segmentation and credit algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of specific consumers based on, among other factors, their past purchasing and payment history with paypal as well as their credit scores. similarly, proprietary risk models and other indicators are applied to assess merchants who wish to use our business finance offerings to help predict their ability to repay. these risk models may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer or merchant due to factors such as inaccurate assumptions, including assumptions related to the particular consumer or merchant, market conditions, economic environment, or limited transaction history or other data, among other factors. the accuracy of these risk models and the ability to manage credit risk related to our credit products may also be affected by legal or regulatory requirements, competitors' actions, changes in consumer behavior, changes in the economic environment, and other factors. our international expansion of our credit product offerings also exposes us to additional risks, including those discussed in the risk factor captioned our international operations subject us to increased risks, which could harm our business. 24 table of contents like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from merchant credit, we face the risk that account holders will default on their payment obligations, creating the risk of potential charge-offs. we face similar risks with respect to u.s. consumer credit losses through the profit sharing relationship with synchrony bank. the non-payment rate among account holders may increase due to, among other things, changes to underwriting standards, worsening economic conditions, such as a recession or government austerity programs, increases in prevailing interest rates, and high unemployment rates. account holders who miss payments often fail to repay their loans, and account holders who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their loans. we currently purchase receivables related to the paypal branded merchant credit products in the u.s. if we are unable to fund our purchase of these receivables adequately or in a cost-effective manner, or if we are unable to efficiently manage the cash resources utilized for these purposes, our business could be harmed. catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business war, terrorism, political events, geopolitical instability, trade barriers and restrictions, public health issues, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events have caused and could cause damage or disruption to the economy and commerce on a global, regional or country-specific basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our customers, and companies with which we do business. such events could decrease demand for our products and services or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products and services to our customers. our corporate headquarters are located in the silicon valley, which is a seismically active region in california. our business operations are subject to interruption by, among others, natural disasters, fire, power shortages, earthquakes, floods, nuclear power plant accidents, and events beyond our control such as other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes and public health issues. a catastrophic event that results in a disruption or failure of our systems or operations could result in significant losses and require substantial recovery time and significant expenditures in order to resume or maintain operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. changes to our buyer and seller protection programs could increase our loss rate. our buyer and seller protection programs protect merchants and consumers from fraudulent transactions, and consumers if they do not receive the item ordered or if the item received is significantly different from its description. in addition, consumers who pay through paypal may have reimbursement rights from their payment card issuer (usually a bank), which in turn will seek recovery from us. the risk of losses from our buyer and seller protection programs are specific to individual buyers, sellers, and transactions, and may also be impacted by regional variations to these programs, modifications to these programs resulting from changes in regulatory requirements, or changes that we decide to implement, such as expanding the scope of transactions covered by one or more of these programs. increases in our loss rate, including as a result of changing our buyer and seller protection programs, could harm our business. our international operations subject us to increased risks, which could harm our business. our international operations have generated approximately one-half of our net revenues in recent years. there are risks inherent in doing business internationally on both a domestic (i.e., in-country) and cross-border basis, including, but not limited to: foreign currency and cross-border trade risks discussed earlier in this risk factors section under the captions we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business ; risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws; local licensing and reporting obligations; obligations to comply with local regulatory and legal obligations related to privacy, data security, and data localization; expenses associated with localizing our products and services, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency, and adapting our products and services to local preferences (e.g., payment methods) with which we may have limited or no experience; trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; stringent local labor laws and regulations; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange restrictions, or extreme fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates for a particular currency; political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; geopolitical events, including natural disasters, public health issues, acts of war, and terrorism; 25 table of contents import or export regulations; compliance with u.s. laws and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, and other local anticorruption laws; compliance with u.s. and foreign laws designed to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities; antitrust and competition regulations; potentially adverse tax developments and consequences; economic uncertainties relating to sovereign and other debt; national or regional differences in macroeconomic growth rates; different, uncertain, overlapping, or more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations; and increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. violations of the complex foreign and u.s. laws, rules and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. these risks are inherent in our international operations and expansion, may increase our costs of doing business internationally, and could harm our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. we are exposed to interest rate risk from our investment portfolio and from interest-rate sensitive assets, including assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our balance sheet as customer accounts. a low interest rate environment or reductions in interest rates may negatively impact our investment income and our net income. in addition, fluctuations in interest rates may adversely impact our customers' spending levels and ability and willingness to pay outstanding amounts owed to us. higher interest rates often lead to higher payment obligations by customers to us and other lenders under mortgage, credit card, and other consumer and merchant loans, which may reduce our customers' ability to remain current on their obligations to us and therefore lead to increased delinquencies, charge-offs, and allowance for loan and interest receivable which could have an adverse effect on our net income. we have entered into a revolving credit facility and a 364-day delayed-draw term loan credit facility. we have borrowed under these credit facilities from time to time, and any borrowings under these credit facilities bear interest at a floating rate, exposing us to interest rate fluctuations. use of our payments services for illegal purposes could harm our business. our payment system is susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses, including money laundering, terrorist financing, illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illegal sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software, movies, music, and other copyrighted or trademarked goods (in particular, digital goods), bank fraud, child pornography human trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, securities fraud, pyramid or ponzi schemes, or to facilitate other illegal activity. use of our payment system for illegal or improper uses has subjected us, and may subject us in the future, to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, and government and regulatory investigations, inquiries, or requests that could result in liability and reputational harm for us. moreover, certain activity that may be legal in one jurisdiction may be illegal in another jurisdiction, and a merchant may intentionally or inadvertently be found responsible for importing or exporting illegal goods, resulting in liability for us. changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities, and government authorities may consider additional payments-related proposals from time to time. owners of intellectual property rights or government authorities may seek to bring legal action against providers of payments solutions, including paypal, that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing or allegedly infringing items. any threatened or resulting claims could result in reputational harm, and any resulting liabilities, loss of transaction volume, or increased costs could harm our business. 26 table of contents our failure to manage our customer funds and the assets underlying our customer funds properly could harm our business. we hold a substantial amount of funds belonging to our customers, including balances in customer accounts and funds being remitted to sellers of goods and services or recipients of person to person ( p2p ) transactions. in certain jurisdictions where we operate, we are required to hold eligible liquid assets, as defined by the relevant regulators in each jurisdiction, equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of all customer balances. our ability to manage and account accurately for the assets underlying our customer funds and comply with applicable liquid asset requirements requires a high level of internal controls. as our business continues to grow and we expand our product offerings, we must continue to strengthen our associated internal controls. paypal (europe), with the permission of the cssf, utilizes certain european customer balances held by our luxembourg banking subsidiary to fund credit balances relating to certain customers. our success requires significant public confidence in our ability to properly manage our customers' balances and handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. any failure to maintain the necessary controls or to manage our customer funds and the assets underlying our customer funds accurately and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements could result in reputational harm, lead customers to discontinue or reduce their use of our products and result in significant penalties and fines, which could materially harm our business. we are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws. we are subject to scrutiny by various government agencies under u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, including antitrust and competition laws. an increasing number of governments are actively enforcing competition laws and regulations. some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anticompetitive conduct. other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the u.s., individual states, other countries, or the european commission, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. our business agreements or arrangements with customers or other companies could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. some regulators, particularly those outside of the u.s., may perceive that our products and services are used so broadly that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. any claims or investigations, even if without merit, may be very expensive to defend or respond to, involve negative publicity, and substantial diversion of management time and effort, and could result in reputational harm, significant judgments, fines or remedial actions against us, or require us to change our business practices. we are subject to patent litigation. we have been sued repeatedly for allegedly infringing other parties' patents. at any given time, we are typically a defendant in a number of patent lawsuits. we expect that we will continue to be subject to patent infringement claims because, among other reasons: our products and services continue to expand in scope and complexity and to converge with technologies not previously associated with the payments space; we continue to expand into new business areas, including through acquisitions; and the number of patent owners who may claim that we, any of the companies that we have acquired, or our customers infringe their patents, and the aggregate number of patents controlled by such patent owners, continues to increase. such claims may be brought directly against us or against our users whom we may indemnify because we are contractually obligated to do so or we choose to do so as a business matter. we believe that many of the claims against us and other technology companies have been, and continue to be, initiated by third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. in addition, we have seen significant patent disputes between operating companies in some technology industries. patent claims, whether meritorious or not, are time-consuming and costly to manage, defend, and resolve, and could require us to make expensive changes in our methods of doing business, enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, make substantial payments to satisfy adverse judgments or settle claims or proceedings, or cease conducting certain operations, which would harm our business. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets, is important to the success of our business. we seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. we also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services, including confidentiality and invention assignment agreements entered into with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business. 27 table of contents effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our products and services. we may be required to expend significant time and expense in order to prevent infringement or to enforce our rights. although we have generally taken measures to protect our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting or enforcing our rights in every jurisdiction, or that contractual arrangements and other steps that we have taken to protect our intellectual property will prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property or deter independent development of equivalent or superior intellectual property rights by others. if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering, or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute, or otherwise violate our trademark rights, the value of our brands could be diminished and our business could be adversely affected. also, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. we have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. these licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. any failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or significant costs incurred in doing so, could diminish the value of our intangible assets and materially harm our business. as the number of products in the technology and payments industries increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual property infringement and other claims. litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of the patent and other intellectual property rights of others. the ultimate outcome of any allegation is often uncertain and, regardless of the outcome, any such claim, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management's time and attention from our business, and require us to, among other things, redesign or stop providing our products or services, pay substantial amounts to satisfy judgments or settle claims or lawsuits, pay substantial royalty or licensing fees, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with certain parties with whom we have commercial relationships. our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation or claims arising out of intellectual property matters, may harm or restrict our business. we are regularly subject to general litigation, regulatory actions, and government inquiries. we are regularly subject to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, government and regulatory investigations, inquiries, actions or requests, and other proceedings alleging violations of laws, rules and regulations with respect to competition, antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, information security, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, sanctions, anti-corruption, consumer protection, fraud, accessibility, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, services, charitable fundraising, contract disputes, escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property, those matters described in note 13 commitments and contingencies litigation and regulatory matters general matters to our consolidated financial statements, and other matters. in particular, our business faces ongoing consumer protection and intellectual property litigation, as discussed above. the number and significance of these disputes and inquiries may increase as our business expands in scale, scope and geographic reach, and our products and services increase in scale and complexity. in addition, the laws, rules and regulations affecting our business, including those pertaining to internet and mobile commerce, data protection, payments services, and credit, are subject to ongoing interpretation by the courts and governmental authorities, and the resulting uncertainty in the scope and application of these laws, rules, and regulations increases the risk that we will be subject to private claims and governmental actions alleging violations. the scope, outcome, and impact of claims, lawsuits, government investigations, disputes, and proceedings to which we are subject cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of the outcome, such matters can have an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, results of operations, or financial condition because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, reputational damage, and other factors. determining reserves for our pending litigation and regulatory proceedings is a complex, fact-intensive process that involves a high degree of judgment. resolving one or more of such legal and regulatory proceedings or other matters could potentially require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments, fines, or penalties or to settle claims or proceedings, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. these proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders that prevent us from offering certain products or services, require us to change our business practices in costly ways, or develop non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. any of these consequences could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 28 table of contents while certain of our customer agreements contain arbitration provisions with class action waiver provisions that may limit our exposure to consumer class action litigation, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in enforcing these arbitration provisions, including the class action waiver provisions, in the future or in any given case. legislative, administrative, or regulatory developments may directly or indirectly prohibit or limit the use of pre-dispute arbitration clauses and class action waiver provisions. any such prohibitions or limitations on or discontinuation of the use of, such arbitration or class action waiver provisions could subject us to additional lawsuits, including additional consumer class action litigation, and significantly limit our ability to avoid exposure from consumer class action litigation. changes in u.s. tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations, and financial conditions. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act ). the tax act made changes to the corporate tax rate, business-related deductions, and taxation of foreign earnings, among others, that are generally effective for taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017. throughout calendar year 2018, the u.s. treasury and certain states issued proposed and final legislation and clarifying guidance with respect to the various provisions of the tax act. additional legislation and guidance is expected to be issued in 2019, which could have a material adverse impact on the value of our u.s. deferred tax assets, result in significant changes to currently computed income tax liabilities for past and current tax periods, and increase our future u.s. tax expense. we are continuing to evaluate the tax act and its requirements, as well as its application to our business and its impact on our effective tax rate. at this stage, it is unclear how many u.s. states will continue to incorporate these federal law changes, or portions thereof, into their tax codes. the implementation by us of new practices and processes designed to comply with, and benefit from, the tax act and its rules and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. for example, compliance with the tax act may require the collection of information not regularly produced within the company, the use of estimates in our financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits, and reviews by authorities throughout the world. any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the periods for which such determination is made. while we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient. in addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated, or by the incurrence of losses, in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, as a result of gains on our foreign exchange risk management program; or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. various levels of government, such as u.s. federal and state legislatures, and international organizations, such as the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ) and the eu, are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative or regulatory action to increase tax revenue. any such tax reform or other legislative or regulatory actions could increase our effective tax rate. 29 table of contents we and our merchants may be subject to sales reporting and record-keeping obligations. a number of u.s. states, the u.s. federal government and foreign countries have implemented or are in the process of implementing reporting or record-keeping obligations on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce to improve tax compliance. additionally, a number of jurisdictions are reviewing whether payment service providers and other intermediaries could be deemed to be the legal agent of merchants for certain tax purposes. we have modified our systems to meet known requirements and expect further modifications will be required to comply with future requirements, which may negatively impact our customer experience and increase operational costs. any failure by us to comply with these and similar reporting and record-keeping obligations could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, adversely impact our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions, and harm our business. in addition, in june 2018, the u.s. supreme court ruled in south dakota v. wayfair, inc. that states may collect internet sales tax on online purchases made outside of the state, which could adversely affect some of our merchants and indirectly harm our customers. acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic investments, and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties and could harm our business. acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic investments, and other strategic transactions are important elements of our overall corporate strategy. we expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions of certain businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets, as well as joint ventures, strategic investments, and commercial and strategic partnerships. these transactions may involve significant challenges, uncertainties and risks, including: the potential loss of key customers, vendors, and other key business partners of the companies we acquire, or dispose of, following and continuing after announcement of our transaction plans; difficulty making strategic hires of new employees, declining employee morale, and retention issues affecting employees (particularly the potential loss of key personnel) of companies that we acquire or dispose of, which may result from changes in compensation, management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the acquired or disposed business; diversion of management time and focus; inability to realize synergies expected to result from an acquisition; the need to and difficulty of integrating the operations, systems (including accounting, compliance, management, information, human resource, and other administrative systems), technologies, data assets, products, and personnel of each acquired company, which is an inherently risky and potentially lengthy and costly process; the need to and difficulty of implementing and/or enhancing controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies which, prior to the acquisition, may have lacked such controls, procedures, and policies or whose controls, procedures, and policies did not meet applicable legal and regulatory standards; the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if integration of acquired companies is delayed or not implemented, and unforeseen difficulties and costs that may arise as a result; potential exposure to new or increased regulatory oversight and regulatory obligations associated with new products and services or entry into new markets; risks associated with our expansion into new international markets; unidentified issues discovered in our due diligence process, including product or service quality issues, intellectual property issues, and legal contingencies; risks associated with the complexity of entering into and effectively managing joint ventures, strategic investments, and other strategic partnerships; risks associated with undetected cyberattacks or security breaches at companies that we acquire or with which we may combine or partner; lawsuits or regulatory actions resulting from the transaction; liability for activities or conduct of the acquired company before the acquisition, including legal and regulatory claims or disputes, violations of laws and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; the acquisition of new customer and employee personal information, which in and of itself may require regulatory approval and/or additional controls, policies, and procedures, and subject us to additional exposure and additional complexity and costs of compliance; and our dependence on the accounting, financial reporting, operating metrics and similar systems, controls and processes of acquired businesses, and the risk that errors or irregularities in those systems, controls, and processes will lead to errors in our financial statements or make it more difficult to manage the acquired business. 30 table of contents at any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these or other types of transactions, any of which could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to our financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, and consummating favorable transaction opportunities. it may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. any acquisitions or dispositions may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), recognize liabilities, and record amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill or intangibles, which could dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders and adversely affect our results of operations and the interests of holders of our indebtedness, as applicable. we completed our acquisition of izettle ab (publ) ( izettle ) on september 20, 2018. prior to the closing of the acquisition, the uk competition and markets authority ( cma ) initiated a review of the transaction. on december 5, 2018, the cma referred the acquisition for a phase 2 investigation and on december 24, 2018, directed paypal to appoint a monitoring trustee. the deadline for the final decision is may 21, 2019. paypal is working cooperatively with the cma and has agreed to hold parts of the paypal and izettle businesses separate as agreed with the cma, pending completion of the cma's investigation. our ability to successfully and timely integrate izettle's business and operations with ours and realize the potential synergies and anticipated benefits from the acquisition is subject to the timing and possible outcome of the cma's review. the cma has broad discretion and may impose requirements, limitations or costs, mandate remedies, such as divestitures of certain business assets, or place additional restrictions on the conduct of our businesses, to ensure sufficient competition in the u.k. market. no assurance can be given as to the ultimate impact and outcome of the cma review, that approval from the cma will be obtained, or the terms and conditions of such approval. because acquisitions are inherently risky, our transactions may not be successful and may, in some cases, harm our operating results or financial condition. any acquisitions or dispositions may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), recognize liabilities, and record amortization expenses related to intangible assets or impairment of goodwill or intangibles, which could dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders and adversely affect our results of operations and the interests of holders of our indebtedness, as applicable. joint ventures and minority investments inherently involve a lesser degree of influence over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational, and/or compliance risks associated with the joint venture or minority investment. in addition, we may be dependent on joint venture partners, controlling shareholders, management or other persons or entities who control them and who may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours. business decisions or other actions or omissions of the joint venture partners, controlling shareholders, management or other persons or entities who control joint ventures or companies in which we invest may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us, and otherwise damage our reputation and brand. there are risks associated with our indebtedness. we have incurred indebtedness, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations and generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase our borrowing costs. if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under out indebtedness may increase. in addition, any downgrades to our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing. any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, which creates additional risk. we rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, including the following: networks, banks, payment processors, and payment gateways that link us to the payment card and bank clearing networks to process transactions; unaffiliated third-party lenders to originate the u.s. paypal credit and paypal mastercard consumer credit products, paypal working capital, and paypal business loan products; third parties that provide loan servicing and customer statements processing; third parties that provide certain outsourced customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations; and third parties that provide facilities, infrastructure, components, and services, including data center facilities and cloud computing. 31 table of contents because we rely on third parties to provide certain of our services and to facilitate certain of our business activities, we face increased operational risk. these third parties may be subject to financial, legal, regulatory, and labor issues, cybersecurity incidents, privacy breaches, service terminations, disruptions or interruptions, or other problems, which may impose additional costs or requirements on us or prevent these third parties from providing services to us or our customers on our behalf, which could harm our business. in addition, these third parties may breach their agreements with us, disagree with our interpretation of contract terms or applicable laws and regulations, refuse to continue or renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms or at all, fail or refuse to process transactions or provide other services adequately, take actions that degrade the functionality of our services, impose additional costs or requirements on us or our customers, or give preferential treatment to competitive services. there can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to us or our customers on our behalf will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. if any third parties do not adequately or appropriately provide their services or perform their responsibilities to us or our customers on our behalf, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all, and we may be subject to business disruptions, losses or costs to remediate any of the deficiencies, customer dissatisfaction, reputational damage, legal or regulatory proceedings, or other adverse consequences which could harm our business. our retail point of sale solutions expose us to additional risks. we have announced several retail point of sale solutions, which enable merchants to accept payments using a payments card reader attached to, or otherwise communicating with, a mobile device or to scan payment cards and codes using the mobile device's embedded camera, and which enable consumers to use their mobile devices to pay at the point of sale. we have entered into strategic partnerships with major payment card networks to further expand our relationship in a way that will make it easier for merchants to accept and consumers to choose to pay for transactions utilizing credit and debit cards via paypal at the point of sale. those agreements provide us with access to each of these partner's tokenization services in the u.s. for in-store point-of-sale paypal transactions, which we expect will increase the number of point of sale transactions that we process. we believe that our recent acquisition of izettle will enable us to further expand our in-store presence. as we continue to expand our product and service offerings at the retail point of sale, we will face additional risks, including: increased expectations from offline retailers regarding the reliability and availability of our systems and services and correspondingly lower amounts of downtime, which we may not be able to meet; significant competition at the retail point of sale, particularly from established payment card providers, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do; increased targeting by fraudsters; given that our fraud models are less developed in this area, we may experience increases in fraud and associated transaction losses as we adjust to fraudulent activity at the point of sale; exposure to product liability claims to the extent that hardware devices that we produce for use at the retail point of sale malfunction or are not in compliance with laws, which could result in substantial liability and require product recalls or other actions; exposure to additional laws, rules, and regulations; increased reliance on third parties involved with processing in-store payments, including independent software providers, electronic point of sale providers, hardware providers (such as cash register and pin-pad providers), payment processors, and banks that enable in-store transactions; and lower operating income than our other payment solutions. unless we are able to successfully manage these risks, including driving adoption of, and significant volume through, our retail point of sale solutions over time, our business may be harmed. 32 table of contents our success largely depends on key personnel. because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain, and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. the loss of key personnel could harm our ability to maintain and grow our business. our future success and performance are significantly dependent upon the continued services of key personnel, including our executive team and other highly skilled employees, and our ability to attract, retain, and motivate such personnel. competition for key personnel is intense, especially in the san francisco bay area, where our corporate headquarters are located and where the cost of living is high, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified key personnel. in making employment decisions, particularly in the technology and payments industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment, and our stock price volatility, or a perception that the market price of our stock may not increase or may increase more slowly than stock prices at other technology or payments companies, may make it more difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees. we may be limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws or policies. potential changes in u.s. immigration policy may make it difficult to renew or obtain visas for any highly skilled personnel that we have hired or are actively recruiting. negative sentiments towards the u.s. as a result of these potential changes may also adversely affect our international recruiting efforts. furthermore, legislative or administrative changes to immigration or visa laws and regulations may impair our hiring processes or projects involving personnel who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. in addition, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or if we are not able to attract or retain highly qualified key personnel effectively, could harm our business and growth prospects. we are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our products and services. companies providing online services may be subject to claims relating to information disseminated through them, including claims alleging defamation, libel, harassment, hate speech, breach of contract, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through the services, among other things. the laws relating to the liability of companies providing online services for information disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges. we are also subject to potential liability to third parties for the customer-provided content on our products and services, particularly in jurisdictions outside the u.s. where the applicable laws are unsettled. if we become liable for information provided by our customers and carried on our products and services, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain product or service offerings, which could harm our business. risks related to our separation from ebay if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the internal revenue code (the code ), ebay, paypal and ebay stockholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities. on july 17, 2015, we became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by ebay inc. of 100% of our outstanding common stock to ebay's stockholders (which we sometimes refer to as the separation or the distribution ). ebay received an opinion from its outside legal counsel regarding the qualification of the distribution, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code. the opinion was based on and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements, and undertakings of ebay and of us, including those relating to the past and future conduct of ebay and of us. if any of these representations, statements, or undertakings were, or became, inaccurate or incomplete, or if ebay or we breach any of our respective covenants in the separation documents, the opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. notwithstanding the opinion of counsel, the irs could determine that the distribution, together with certain related transactions, should be treated as a taxable transaction if the irs determines that any of these representations, assumptions, or undertakings upon which such opinion was based are incorrect or have been violated or if the irs disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. an opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs or any court and there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reached in the opinion. the irs did not provide any opinion in advance of the separation that our proposed transaction is tax-free. 33 table of contents if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code, in general, ebay would recognize taxable gain as if it had sold the paypal common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, ebay stockholders who received paypal common stock in the distribution may be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares, and we could incur significant liabilities. there are risks associated with our relationship with ebay. in connection with our separation from ebay, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with ebay, as well as various other agreements, including an operating agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, an intellectual property matters agreement, a data sharing addendum, and a product development agreement. the separation agreement, the tax matters agreement, the employee matters agreement, and the intellectual property matters agreement determined the allocation of assets and liabilities (including by means of licensing) between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include associated indemnification obligations. the operating agreement, the data sharing addendum, and the product development agreement establish certain commercial relationships between ebay and us related to payment processing, credit, and data sharing. disputes between ebay and us have arisen and others may arise in the future; an adverse outcome in such matters could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. if either we or ebay are unable to satisfy our performance, payment, or indemnification obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses or be required to make substantial indemnification or other payments to ebay. our relationship with ebay is governed, in part, by an operating agreement entered into at separation with a term of five years (expiring july 2020). this operating agreement defines a number of important elements of our commercial relationship with ebay, as well as certain obligations and restrictions that limit paypal's provision of services to certain competitive platform operators of ebay (as specified in the operating agreement). ebay remains a significant source of our revenues and operating income. we expect the portion of our revenue and operating income attributable to ebay to continue to decline due to various factors (many of which are beyond our control), including the expiration (or earlier termination) of the operating agreement with ebay, and the extent to which ebay intermediates payments on its platform (including by acting as a merchant of record), limits the availability of paypal as a payment option or offers (or promotes) alternative payment options, directs transactions on its platforms to different providers of payment services, or eliminates or modifies its risk management or customer protection programs on its platforms, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, reduction in ebay volume, and other consequences adverse to our business. if we are unable to generate sufficient business from our non-ebay customers to offset the expected reduction in the portion of our business attributable to ebay, it could materially impact the growth in our business and our ability to meet our long-term financial targets. risks related to our common stock the price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations or lack of coverage and reports by securities analysts; changes in our capital structure; the activities of our competitors; speculation, coverage, or sentiment in the media or the investment community; the operating and stock price performance and valuation of comparable companies; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the sec; additions or departures of key personnel; announcements related to litigation, regulation, or disputes; changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which we operate; and market conditions or trends in the payments industry, the industries of merchants, and the domestic and worldwide economy as a whole. 34 table of contents as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they purchase our common stock. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies like us. these broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. in addition, in the past, some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to class action or derivative lawsuits. the filing of a lawsuit against us, regardless of the outcome, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the state courts of the state of delaware, or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the corporation otherwise determines, the state courts of the state of delaware, or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to us or our stockholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the delaware general corporation law ( dgcl ) or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. alternatively, if a court outside of delaware were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we could incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of deterring coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and by encouraging prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include, among others: rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the fact that directors may not be elected, removed, or replaced at stockholder-requested special meetings unless a person, entity, or group owns at least a majority of our outstanding common stock; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend, and other rights of preferred stock without stockholder approval; the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors in most circumstances and to determine the size of our board of directors; the prohibition on stockholders acting by written consent; and the absence of cumulative rights in the election of directors. we have also elected not to be governed by section 203 of the dgcl, which provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation, or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, however, contains a provision that generally mirrors section 203 of the dgcl, except that it provides for a 20% threshold instead of the 15% provided for by the dgcl. these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may favor. while these provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers, they will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and may delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. 35 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and investment risk. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our investing, funding, and foreign currency derivative activities in order to mitigate market risks. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk relating to our investment portfolio and from interest-rate sensitive assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our consolidated balance sheets as customer accounts. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , approximately 78% and 39% , respectively, of our total cash, cash equivalents, and investment portfolio was held in cash and cash equivalents. the assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our consolidated balance sheets as customer accounts are maintained in interest and non-interest bearing bank deposits, time deposits, u.s. and foreign government and agency securities, and corporate debt securities. we seek to preserve principal while holding eligible liquid assets, as defined by applicable regulatory requirements and commercial law in the jurisdictions where we operate, equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of all customer balances. we do not pay interest on amounts due to customers. in the fourth quarter of 2017, we entered into an unsecured $3.0 billion , 364 day delayed-draw term loan credit facility, which was available in up to three borrowings ( 2017 credit agreement ). in the fourth quarter of 2018, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement ( amended credit agreement ), which provides for an unsecured $5.0 billion , 364 -day delayed-draw term loan credit facility, which is available in up to four separate borrowings. in the third quarter of 2015, we entered into a $2.0 billion senior unsecured credit facility maturing in 2020 ( 2015 credit agreement ). we also maintain uncommitted credit facilities in various regions throughout the world with borrowing capacity of approximately $300 million in the aggregate. borrowings under the amended credit agreement and 2015 credit agreement, if any, bear interest at floating rates. as a result, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates to the extent of our borrowings. as of december 31, 2018 , we had $2.0 billion of borrowings outstanding under the amended credit agreement at a weighted average interest rate of 3.34% . accordingly, at december 31, 2018 , $3.0 billion of borrowing capacity was available for the purposes permitted by the amended credit agreement, subject to customary conditions to borrowing. as of december 31, 2018 , no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under the 2015 credit agreement or our uncommitted credit facilities. interest rates may also adversely impact our customers' spending levels and ability and willingness to pay outstanding amounts owed to us. higher interest rates often lead to higher payment obligations by customers of our credit products to us, or to lenders under mortgage, credit card, and other consumer and merchant loans, which may reduce our customers' ability to remain current on their obligations to us and therefore lead to increased delinquencies, charge-offs, and allowance for loan and interest receivable, which could have an adverse effect on our net income. a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would not have had a material impact on our financial assets or liabilities at december 31, 2018 and 2017 . foreign currency exchange rate risk we have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, australian dollar, and canadian dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency exchange rate risk which may adversely impact our financial results. we transact business in various foreign currencies and have significant international revenues and costs. in addition, we charge our international subsidiaries for their use of intellectual property and technology and for certain corporate services. our cash flows, results of operations, and certain of our intercompany balances that are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses due to foreign currency fluctuations and related hedging activities. we are generally a net receiver of foreign currencies and therefore benefit from a weakening of the u.s. dollar, and are adversely affected by a strengthening of the u.s. dollar, relative to foreign currencies. we have a foreign currency exchange exposure management program designed to identify material foreign currency exposures, manage these exposures, and reduce the potential effects of currency fluctuations on our reported consolidated cash flows and results of operations through the execution of foreign currency exchange contracts. these foreign currency exchange contracts are accounted for as derivative instruments; for additional details related to our foreign currency exchange contracts, please see note 10 derivative instruments to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 62 table of contents we use foreign currency exchange forward contracts to protect our forecasted u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of adverse currency exchange rate movements. we designate these contracts as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. the derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) and subsequently reclassified into the financial statement line item in which the hedged item is recorded in the same period the forecasted transaction affects earnings. if we elect to discontinue our cash flow hedges and it is probable that the original forecasted transaction will occur, we continue to report them in aoci until the forecasted transaction affects earnings at which point we also reclassify the de-designated hedges into earnings. gains and losses on derivatives held after we discontinue our cash flow hedges and gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in the same financial statement line item to which the derivative relates. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. if the u.s. dollar weakened by 20% at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , the amount recorded in aoci related to our foreign currency exchange forward contracts, before taxes, would have been approximately $707 million and $536 million lower, respectively. if the u.s. dollar strengthened by 20% at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , the amount recorded in aoci related to our foreign currency exchange forward contracts, before taxes, would have been approximately $707 million and $536 million higher, respectively. we have an additional foreign currency exchange management program whereby we use foreign currency exchange contracts to offset the foreign currency exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. these contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on our assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, and are offset by the gains and losses on the foreign currency exchange contracts. adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before income taxes of approximately $295 million and $243 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, without considering the offsetting effect of hedging. foreign currency exchange contracts in place as of december 31, 2018 would have positively impacted income before income taxes by approximately $308 million , resulting in a net positive impact of approximately $13 million . foreign currency exchange contracts in place as of december 31, 2017 would have positively impacted income before income taxes by approximately $211 million , resulting in a net negative impact of approximately $32 million . these reasonably possible adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% were applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries at the balance sheet dates to compute the adverse impact these changes would have had on our income before income taxes in the near term. investment risk as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , our equity investments totaled $293 million and $88 million , respectively, which represented approximately 3% and 1% of our total cash and investment portfolio at those dates, respectively, and were related to minority equity interests in companies that are not publicly traded. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , we did not hold any marketable equity instruments. we review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate a decline in fair value of such assets below carrying value. our analysis includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales and acquisitions of the securities in which we have invested, and other publicly available data.risk factors 12 risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). we do not intend, and undertake no obligation except as required by law, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. you should read the information in this report in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. item 1. business overview paypal holdings, inc. was incorporated in delaware in january 2015 and is a leading technology platform and digital payments company that enables digital and mobile payments on behalf of consumers and merchants worldwide. paypal is committed to democratizing financial services and empowering people and businesses to join and thrive in the global economy. our goal is to enable our consumers and merchants to manage and move their money anywhere in the world, anytime, on any platform, and using any device. our combined payment solutions, including our paypal, paypal credit, braintree, venmo, xoom, and izettle products and services, comprise our proprietary payments platform. paypal's payment solutions enable our customers to send and receive payments. we operate a global, two-sided network at scale that connects merchants and consumers with 305 million active accounts (consisting of 281 million consumer active accounts and 24 million merchant active accounts) across more than 200 markets. paypal helps merchants and consumers connect, transact, and complete payments, whether they are online, on a mobile device, in an app, or in person. paypal is more than a connection to third-party payment networks. we provide proprietary payment solutions accepted by merchants that enable the completion of payments on our payments platform on behalf of our customers. we offer our customers the flexibility to use their accounts to purchase and receive payment for goods and services, as well as the ability to transfer and withdraw funds. we enable consumers to exchange funds more safely with merchants using a variety of funding sources, which may include a bank account, a paypal account balance, a venmo account balance, a paypal credit account, a credit or debit card, or other stored value products such as coupons, gift cards, and eligible credit card rewards. our paypal, venmo, and xoom products also make it safer and simpler for friends and family to transfer funds to each other. we offer merchants an end-to-end payments solution that provides authorization and settlement capabilities, as well as instant access to funds. we help merchants connect with their customers and manage risk. we enable consumers to engage in cross-border shopping and merchants to extend their global reach while reducing the complexity and friction involved in enabling overseas and cross-border trade. we earn revenues primarily by charging fees for completing payment transactions for our customers and other payment-related services that are typically based on the volume of activity processed on our payments platform. generally we do not charge consumers to fund or draw from their accounts; however, we generate revenue from consumers on fees charged for foreign currency exchange, and instant transfers from their paypal or venmo account to their debit card or bank account, as well as from interest and fees from our paypal credit product. we also earn revenue by providing other value added services, which comprise revenue earned through partnerships, our paypal merchant and consumer credit products, subscription fees, gateway services, and other services that we provide to our merchants and consumers. our gateway services, which include our payflow gateway service and braintree gateway service, provide the technology that links a merchant's website to its processing network and merchant account and enables merchants to accept payments online with credit or debit cards. 4 table of contents strategy our ability to grow revenue is affected by, among other things, consumer spending patterns, merchant and consumer adoption of digital payment methods, the expansion of multiple commerce channels, the growth of mobile devices and merchant and consumer applications on those devices, the growth of consumers globally with internet and mobile access, the pace of transition from cash and checks to digital forms of payment, our share of the digital payments market, and our ability to innovate and introduce new products and services that merchants and consumers value. our strategy to drive growth in our business includes the following: growing our core business : through expanding our global capabilities, customer base and scale, increasing our customers' use of our products and services by better addressing their everyday needs related to accessing, managing, and moving money, and expanding the adoption of our solutions by merchants and consumers; expanding our value proposition for merchants and consumers : by being technology and platform agnostic, partnering with our merchants to grow and expand their business online and in-store; and providing consumers with simple, secure, and flexible ways to manage and move money across different markets, merchants, and platforms; forming strategic partnerships : by building new strategic partnerships to provide better experiences for our customers, offering greater choice and flexibility, acquiring new customers, and reinforcing our role in the ecosystem; and seeking new areas of growth : organically and through acquisitions and strategic investments in our existing and new international markets around the world and focusing on innovation both in the digital and physical world. key performance metrics we measure the relevance of our products and services to our customers, and therefore the success of our business, through active accounts, payment transactions, and total payment volume: active accounts : an active account is an account registered directly with paypal or a platform access partner that has completed a transaction on our payments platform, not including gateway-exclusive transactions, within the past 12 months. a platform access partner is a third-party whose customers are provided access to paypal's payments platform through such third-party's login credentials. a market is a geographic area or political jurisdiction, such as a country, territory, or protectorate, in which we offer some or all of our products and services. a country, territory, or protectorate is identified by a distinct set of laws and regulations. 5 table of contents number of payment transactions : number of payment transactions is the total number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed on our payments platform or enabled by paypal via a partner payment solution, not including gateway-exclusive transactions. total payment volume ( tpv ) : tpv is the value of payments, net of reversals, successfully completed on our payments platform or enabled by paypal via a partner payment solution, not including gateway-exclusive transactions. our strengths our business is built on a strong foundation designed to drive growth and differentiate us from our competitors. we believe that our competitive strengths include the following: two-sided platform our platform connecting merchants and consumers enables paypal to offer unique end-to-end product experiences while gaining valuable insights into customer behavior through our data. our platform provides for digital, mobile, and in-store transactions while being both technology and platform agnostic. scale our global scale allows us to drive organic growth. as of december 31, 2019 , we had 305 million active accounts, consisting of 281 million consumer active accounts and 24 million merchant active accounts in more than 200 markets around the world. in 2019 , we processed $712 billion of tpv. brands we have built well-recognized and trusted brands. our marketing efforts across multiple demographic groups play an important role in building brand visibility, usage, and overall preference among customers. risk management our risk management system and use of tokenization are designed to help keep customer information secure, and to help ensure we process legitimate transactions around the world, while identifying and minimizing illegal, high-risk, or fraudulent transactions. regulatory we believe that our regulatory licenses, which enable us to operate in markets around the world, are a distinct advantage and help support business growth. technology our payments platform utilizes a combination of proprietary and third-party technologies and services intended to efficiently and securely facilitate transactions between millions of merchants and consumers worldwide across different channels, markets, and networks. our payments platform connects with financial service providers around the world and allows consumers to make purchases using a wide range of payment methods, regardless of where a merchant is located. consumers who use our payments platform can send payments in more than 200 markets around the world and in more than 100 currencies, withdraw funds to their bank accounts in 56 currencies and hold balances in their paypal accounts in 25 currencies. a transaction on our payments platform can involve multiple participants in addition to us, including a merchant, a consumer, and the consumer's funding source provider. we have developed intuitive user interfaces, customer tools, transaction completion database, and network applications on our payments platform that help our customers utilize our suite of products and services. our payments platform, open application programming interfaces, and developer tools are designed to enable developers to innovate with ease and offer robust applications to our global ecosystem of merchants and consumers, while at the same time maintaining the security of our customers' financial information. the technology infrastructure supporting our payments platform simplifies the storage and processing of large amounts of data and facilitates the deployment and operation of large-scale global products and services in both our own data centers and cloud computing. our technology infrastructure is designed around industry best practices intended to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences. our payments platform incorporates multiple layers of protection for business continuity and system redundancy purposes and to help address cybersecurity risks. we have a comprehensive cybersecurity program designed to protect our technology infrastructure and payments platform against these challenges, including regularly testing our systems to identify and address potential vulnerabilities. we strive to continually improve our technology infrastructure and payments platform to enhance the customer experience and to increase efficiency, scalability, and security. 6 table of contents merchant and consumer payment solutions merchant value proposition we partner with our merchants to help grow and expand their businesses by providing global reach and powering all aspects of digital checkout. we offer alternative payment methods, including access to credit solutions, provide fraud prevention and risk management solutions, reducing losses through proprietary protection programs, and offer tools and insights for leveraging data analytics to attract new customers and improve sales conversion. we employ a technology and platform agnostic approach intended to enable merchants of all sizes to provide digital checkout online, on mobile, and in-store (at the point of sale) across all platforms and devices and to securely and simply receive payments from their customers. merchants can onboard quickly with paypal and are generally not required to invest in new or specialized hardware. paypal is also a popular form of payment solution for mobile commerce, and our business has grown with the increased adoption of mobile devices. we believe our braintree products strengthen our position in digital and mobile payments and extend our coverage to a new class of retailers and service providers that offer their services primarily through mobile applications. through a single braintree integration, a merchant can begin accepting payments with credit or debit cards, paypal, paypal credit, google pay, apple pay, samsung pay, and other payment solutions. izettle offers a card acceptance service that enables small businesses to accept credit and debit card payments, as well as a software solution to record, manage, and analyze sales. izettle provides in-store capabilities in twelve countries. during 2019, we launched paypal for marketplaces, our global, end-to-end solution designed to satisfy the unique payment needs of platforms, marketplaces, and crowdfunding sites, which provides payment solutions for accepting and disbursing funds between consumers and businesses. we also offer gateway services which provide the payment gateway technology that links a merchant's website to its processing network and enable merchants to accept payments online with credit or debit cards. our acquisition of a controlling equity interest in guofubao information technology co. (gopay), ltd ( gopay ), a holder of payment business licenses in china, enables us to partner with chinese financial institutions and technology platforms to provide a more comprehensive set of payment solutions to merchants and consumers, both in china and globally. we offer access to credit products for certain small and medium-sized merchants through our paypal working capital and paypal business loan products, which we collectively refer to as our business financing offerings. our paypal working capital product allows businesses to borrow a certain percentage of their annual payment volume processed by paypal for a fixed fee. our paypal business loan product provides businesses with short-term financing for a fixed fee based on an evaluation of both the applying business as well as the business owner. we believe that our business financing offerings allow us to deepen our engagement with our existing small and medium-sized merchants and expand services to new merchants by providing access to capital that may not be available effectively or efficiently from traditional banks or other lending providers. 7 table of contents we generate revenues from merchants primarily by charging fees for completing their payment transactions and other payment-related services. consumer value proposition we focus on providing affordable consumer products intended to democratize the management and movement of money. we provide consumers with a digital wallet which enables them to send payments to merchants more safely using a variety of funding sources, which may include a bank account, a paypal account balance, a venmo account balance, a paypal credit account, a credit or debit card, or other stored value products such as coupons, gift cards, and eligible credit card rewards. we also offer consumers person-to-person ( p2p ) payment solutions through our paypal, venmo, and xoom products. paypal continues to be a key driver of our total p2p volumes, enabling both domestic and international p2p transfers across our payments platform. our venmo app in the u.s. is a leading mobile application used to move money between our customers and to make purchases at approved merchants. xoom is an international money transfer service that enables our customers to send money and prepaid mobile phone reloads to, and pay bills for, people around the world in a secure, fast, and cost-effective way. p2p is a significant customer acquisition channel that facilitates organic growth by enabling potential paypal users to establish active accounts with us at the time they make or receive a p2p payment. we offer our paypal credit product to consumers in certain markets as a potential funding source at checkout. once a consumer is approved for credit, paypal credit is made available as a funding source for that account holder. our u.s. paypal branded consumer credit program is offered exclusively through synchrony bank. we believe that our consumer credit products allow us to increase engagement with consumers and merchants on our two-sided network and differentiate us from other payment processors by helping merchants drive incremental sales. we generate revenue from consumers on fees charged for foreign currency exchange, optional instant transfers from their paypal or venmo account to their debit card or bank account, and on interest and fees from our paypal credit product. protecting merchants and consumers protecting merchants and consumers on our payments platform from financial and fraud loss is imperative to successfully competing in the payments industry and sustainably growing our business. fraudulent activities, such as account takeover, identity theft (including stolen financial information), and counterparty malicious activities, represent a significant risk to merchants and consumers, as well as their payment partners. we provide merchants and consumers with protection programs on most purchase transactions completed on our payments platform, excluding gateway-exclusive transactions or situations where our customer agreements specifically do not provide for protections. we believe that these programs, which protect both merchants and consumers from financial loss resulting from fraud and counterparty non-performance, are generally much broader than similar protections provided by other participants in the payments industry. as a result, merchants may incur losses for chargebacks and other claims on certain transactions when using other payments providers that the merchants would not incur if they used our payments services. we also provide consumer protection against losses on qualifying purchases and accept claims for review up to 180 days post-transaction. we believe that this protection is generally consistent with, or better than, that offered by other payments providers. these programs are designed to promote confidence on both the part of consumers, who will only be required to pay if they receive their purchased item or service in the condition significantly as described, and merchants, who will receive payment for the product or service they deliver to the customer. our ability to protect both merchants and consumers is based largely on our proprietary, end-to-end payments platform and our ability to leverage the data from both sides of transactions on our two-sided network specifically from buyers and sellers and from senders and receivers of payments. we believe mobile devices will continue to play a significant and increasing role in commerce, including by creating the opportunities to make our ecosystem safer. for example, paypal uses data from mobile devices and growing protection for the mobile operating environment to reduce financial and fraud risk to merchants and consumers. our ongoing investment in systems and processes designed to enhance the safety and security of our products reflects our goal of having paypal recognized as one of the world's most trusted payments brands. 8 table of contents competition the global payments industry is highly competitive, rapidly changing, highly innovative, and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. we compete against a wide range of businesses, including those that are larger than we are, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, or a dominant or more secure position, or offer other products and services to consumers and merchants that we do not offer, as well as smaller or younger companies that may be more agile in responding quickly to regulatory and technological changes. many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. competition also may intensify as businesses enter into business combinations and partnerships, and established companies in other segments expand to become competitive with different aspects of our business. we compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain, and engage both merchants and consumers on our payments platform; ability to demonstrate to merchants that they may achieve incremental sales by using and offering our services to consumers; consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions on our payments platform, including the ability for consumers to use our products and services without sharing their financial information with the merchant or any other party they are paying; simplicity and transparency of our fee structure; ability to develop products and services across multiple commerce channels, including e-commerce, mobile, and payments at the point of sale; trust in our dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service experience; brand recognition and preference; website, mobile platform, and application onboarding, ease-of-use, speed, availability, and dependability; ability of our payments platform to support across technologies and payment methods; system reliability and data security; ability to assist merchants in complying with payments-related laws and regulations; ease and quality of integration into third-party mobile applications and operating systems; and quality of developer tools, such as our application programming interfaces and software development kits. in addition to the discussion in this section, see item 1a. risk factors under the caption we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry for further discussion of the potential impact of competition on our business. research and development total research and development expense was $1.1 billion, $1.1 billion and $953 million in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. intellectual property the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets is important to the success of our business. we seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. we have registered our core brands as domain names and as trademarks in the u.s. and a large number of other jurisdictions. we also have in place an active program to continue to secure and enforce trademarks and domain names that corresponds to our brands in markets of interest. we have filed patent applications in the u.s. and in international jurisdictions covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology and new innovations. we also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services. we have routinely entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and non-disclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business to control access to, and use and disclosure of, our proprietary information. for additional information regarding some of the risks relating to our intellectual property, including costs of protecting our intellectual property, see the information in item 1a. risk factors under the captions we are subject to patent litigation and we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights . 9 table of contents government regulation we operate globally and in a rapidly evolving regulatory environment characterized by a heightened regulatory focus on all aspects of the payments industry. that focus continues to become even more heightened as regulators on a global basis focus on such important issues as countering terrorist financing, anti-money laundering, privacy, cybersecurity, and consumer protection. some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject were enacted recently, and the laws and regulations applicable to us, including those enacted prior to the advent of digital and mobile payments, are continuing to evolve through legislative and regulatory action and judicial interpretation. new or changing laws and regulations, including how such laws and regulations are interpreted and implemented, as well as increased penalties and enforcement actions related to non-compliance, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. therefore, we monitor these areas closely to design compliant solutions for our customers who depend on us. government regulation impacts key aspects of our business. we are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the markets we operate. payments regulation. various laws and regulations govern the payments industry in the u.s. and internationally. in the u.s., paypal, inc. holds licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent), which, among other things, subjects paypal, inc. to reporting requirements, bonding requirements, limitations on the investment of customer funds, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. outside the u.s., we provide similar services customized for various countries and foreign jurisdictions through our foreign subsidiaries. the activities of those non-u.s. entities are, or may be, supervised by a financial regulatory authority in the jurisdictions in which they operate. among other regulatory authorities, the luxembourg commission de surveillance du secteur financier (the cssf ), the australian prudential regulation authority, the monetary authority of singapore, the reserve bank of india, the central bank of russia, the central bank of brazil, and the people's bank of china have asserted jurisdiction over some or all of our activities in their respective jurisdictions. this list is not exhaustive, and there are numerous other regulatory agencies that have or may assert jurisdiction over our activities. the laws and regulations applicable to the payments industry in any given jurisdiction are subject to interpretation and change. banking agency supervision . we serve our customers in the european union ( eu ) through paypal (europe) s. .r.l. et cie, sca, a wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in luxembourg by the cssf. consequently, we must comply with rules and regulations of the european banking industry, including those related to capitalization, funds management, corporate governance, anti-money laundering, disclosure, reporting, and inspection. we are, or may be, subject to banking-related regulations in other countries now or in the future related to our role in the financial industry. in addition, based on our relationships with our partner financial institutions, we are, or may be, subject to indirect regulation and examination by these financial institutions' regulators. consumer financial protection bureau . the consumer financial protection bureau (the cfpb ) has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products in the u.s., including consumer credit, deposits, payments, and similar products. as a large market participant of remittance transfers, the cfpb has direct supervisory authority over our business. the cfpb and other similar regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions may have broad consumer protection mandates that could result in the promulgation and interpretation of rules and regulations that may affect our business. anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing. paypal is subject to anti-money laundering ( aml ) laws and regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions, as well as laws designed to prevent the use of the financial systems to facilitate terrorist activities. our aml program is designed to prevent our payment network from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit activities, or to do business in countries or with persons and entities included on designated country or person lists promulgated by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets controls ( ofac ) and equivalent authorities in other countries. our aml and sanctions compliance programs, overseen by our aml/bank secrecy act officer, is composed of policies, procedures, and internal controls, and is designed to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks. interchange fees. interchange fees associated with four-party payments systems are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions. for example, in the eu, the multilateral interchange fee ( mif ) regulation caps interchange fees for credit and debit card payments and provides for business rules to be complied with by any company dealing with card transactions, including paypal. as a result, the fees that we collect in certain jurisdictions may become the subject of regulatory challenge. 10 table of contents data protection and information security. aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy and data protection regulation in the u.s., the eu, asia pacific, and elsewhere. for example, the eu adopted a comprehensive general data protection regulation (the gdpr ), which came into effect in may 2018. gdpr expanded the scope of the eu data protection law to foreign companies processing personal data of european economic area ( eea ) individuals and imposed a stricter data protection compliance regime. in the u.s., we are subject to privacy and information safeguarding requirements under the gramm-leach-bliley act and the california consumer privacy act that require similar privacy protections afforded by the gdpr, as well as the maintenance of a written, comprehensive information security program. in europe, the operations of our luxembourg bank are subject to confidentiality and information safeguarding requirements under the luxembourg banking act. regulatory authorities around the world are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy and data protection that may contain additional privacy and data protection obligations. in addition, the interpretation and application of these privacy and data protection laws in the u.s., europe, and elsewhere are often uncertain and in a state of flux. anti-corruption. paypal is subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, and similar anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving, accepting, or authorizing others to provide anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to or from a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. we have implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with these laws and regulations. additional regulatory developments. various regulatory agencies continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including virtual currencies, identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, cybersecurity, and marketing, that may impact paypal's business. for an additional discussion on governmental regulation affecting our business, please see the risk factors related to regulation of our payments business and regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use, and/or security in item 1a. risk factors under the caption risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition and item 3. legal proceedings included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. seasonality the company does not experience meaningful seasonality with respect to net revenues. no individual quarter in 2019 , 2018 or 2017 accounted for more than 30% of annual net revenue. employees as of december 31, 2019 , we employed approximately 23,200 people globally, of whom approximately 11,200 were located in the u.s. we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. separation from ebay inc. paypal holdings, inc. was incorporated in delaware in january 2015 for the purpose of owning and operating ebay's payments business in connection with the separation and distribution described below. ebay completed the transfer of substantially all of the assets, liabilities, and operations of ebay's payments business to paypal in june 2015. prior to the contribution of the payments business, paypal holdings, inc. had no operations. on july 17, 2015 (the distribution date ), paypal became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by ebay of 100% of the outstanding common stock of paypal to ebay stockholders (which we refer to as the separation or the distribution ). each ebay stockholder of record as of the close of business on july 8, 2015 received one share of paypal common stock for every share of ebay common stock held on the record date. approximately 1.2 billion shares of paypal common stock were distributed on july 17, 2015 to ebay stockholders. paypal's common stock began regular way trading under the ticker symbol pypl on the nasdaq global select market on july 20, 2015. 11 table of contents available information the address of our principal executive offices is paypal holdings, inc., 2211 north first street, san jose, california 95131. our website is located at www.paypal.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investor.paypal-corp.com. from time to time, we may use our investor relations site and other online and social media channels, including our paypal stories blog (https://www.paypal.com/stories/us), twitter handles (@paypal and @paypalnews), linkedin page (https://www.linkedin.com/company/paypal), facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/paypalusa/), youtube channel (https://www.youtube.com/paypal), dan schulman's linkedin profile (https://www.linkedin.com/in/dan-schulman/), john rainey's linkedin profile (www.linkedin.com/in/john-rainey-pypl), and dan schulman's facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/danschulmanpaypal/) to disclose material non-public information and comply with our disclosure obligations under regulation fair disclosure ( fd ). our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. the content of our websites and information we may post on or provide to online and social media channels, including those mentioned above, and information that can be accessed through our websites or these online and social media channels is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k or in any other report or document we file with the sec, and any references to our websites or these online and social media channels are intended to be inactive textual references only. item 1a. risk factors the following discussion is divided into three sections. the first section, which begins immediately following this paragraph, discusses some of the risks that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the second section, captioned risks related to our separation from ebay discusses some of the risks relating to our separation from ebay in july 2015 into an independent publicly traded company. the third section, captioned risks related to our common stock, discusses some of the risks relating to an investment in our common stock. you should carefully review all of these sections in addition to the other information appearing in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, for important information regarding risks and uncertainties that affect us. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry. the global payments industry is highly competitive, rapidly changing, highly innovative, and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. we compete against a wide range of businesses, including those that are larger than we are, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, or a dominant or more secure position, or offer other products and services to consumers and merchants that we do not offer, as well as smaller or younger companies that may be more agile in responding quickly to regulatory and technological changes. many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. competition also may intensify as businesses enter into business combinations and partnerships, and established companies in other segments expand to become competitive with different aspects of our business. we compete primarily on the basis of the following: ability to attract, retain, and engage both merchants and consumers on our payments platform; ability to demonstrate to merchants that they may achieve incremental sales by using and offering our services to consumers; consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions on our payments platform, including the ability for consumers to use our products and services without sharing their financial information with the merchant or any other party they are paying; simplicity and transparency of our fee structure; ability to develop products and services across multiple commerce channels, including e-commerce, mobile, and payments at the point of sale; trust in our dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service experience; brand recognition and preference; 12 table of contents website, mobile platform, and application onboarding, ease-of-use, speed, availability, and dependability; ability of our payments platform to support across technologies and payment methods; system reliability and data security; ability to assist merchants in complying with payments-related laws and regulations; ease and quality of integration into third-party mobile applications and operating systems; and quality of developer tools, such as our application programming interfaces and software development kits. we compete against a wide range of businesses with varying roles in all forms of payments, including: paper-based transactions (principally cash and checks); banks and financial institutions providing traditional payment methods, particularly credit and debit cards (collectively, payment cards ) and electronic bank transfers; payment networks which facilitate payments for credit card users; providers of digital wallets which offer customers the ability to pay online and/or in-store through a variety of payment methods, including with mobile applications, through contactless payments, and with a variety of payment cards; providers of mobile payments solutions that use tokenized card data approaches and contactless payments (e.g., near field communication ( nfc ) or host card emulation functionality) to eliminate the need to swipe or insert a card or enter a personal identification number or password; payment-card processors that offer their services to merchants, including for card on file payments where the merchant invites the consumer to select a payment method for their first transaction and to use the same payment method for subsequent transactions; providers of person-to-person ( p2p ) payments that facilitate individuals sending money with an email address or mobile phone number; merchants and merchant associations that may provide proprietary payment networks to facilitate payments within their own retail network; providers of money remittance services for transferring money abroad, including those that may provide proprietary payment networks; providers of card readers for mobile devices and of other point-of-sale and multi-channel technologies; and providers of virtual currencies and distributed ledger technologies. we often partner with many of these businesses and we consider the ability to continue establishing these partnerships as important to our business. competition for relationships with these partners is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to establish, grow, or maintain these partner relationships. we also face competition and potential competition from: services that provide online merchants the option of paying for purchases from their bank account or paying on credit; issuers of stored value products targeted at online payments; other online and mobile payment-services providers globally; services targeting users of social networks and online gaming, including those offering social commerce and p2p payments; payment services enabling banking customers to send and receive payments through their bank account, including through immediate or real-time payments systems; e-commerce services that provide special offers linked to a specific payment provider; services that help merchants and consumers use, accept, buy, sell, and manage virtual currencies; and electronic funds transfer services as a method of payment for both online and offline transactions. some of our current and potential competitors have larger customer bases, broader geographic scope, volume, scale, resources, and market share than we do, which may provide them significant competitive advantages. some competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, and other regulatory requirements. they may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services, and offer lower prices or more effectively offer their own innovative programs, products, and services. if we are not able to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors, drive value for our customers, or effectively and efficiently align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively in the market. 13 table of contents substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come primarily from transactions involving payments during that quarter, which may result in significant fluctuations in our operating results that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock. substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come primarily from transactions involving payments during that quarter. as a result, our operating and financial results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and may continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including the risks set forth in this risk factors section. it is difficult for us to forecast accurately the level or source of our revenues or earnings. in view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast expenses. quarterly and annual expenses reflected in our financial statements may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. the trading price of our common stock may decline significantly as a result of the factors described in this paragraph. global and regional economic conditions could harm our business. our operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions. uncertainty about global and regional economic events and conditions may result in consumers and businesses postponing or lowering spending in response to, among other factors: tighter credit, higher unemployment, consumer debt levels or reduced consumer confidence, financial market volatility, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, changes and uncertainties related to government fiscal and tax policies, changes and uncertainties about u.s and international trade relationships, agreements, policies, treaties and restrictive actions, as well as the possibility of significant increases in tariffs on imported goods, and other restrictive actions, the inability of the u.s. congress to enact a budget in a fiscal year, a sequestration, and/or another shutdown of the u.s. government, government austerity programs, and other negative financial news or macroeconomic developments. these and other global and regional economic events and conditions, including brexit, could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and services, including a reduction in the volume and size of transactions on our payments platform. in addition, any financial turmoil affecting the banking system or financial markets could cause additional consolidation of the financial services industry, significant failures of financial service institutions, new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility or distress in the fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. see also the risk factor captioned, the united kingdom's departure from the eu could adversely affect us. if we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative products and services, the use of our products and services and, consequently, our revenues could decline. rapid, significant, and disruptive technological changes impact the industries in which we operate, including developments in: technologies supporting our regulatory and compliance obligations (e.g., in relation to our know your customer ( kyc ) and customer identification program ( cip ) obligations under anti-money laundering regulations); artificial intelligence and machine learning (e.g., in relation to fraud and risk decisioning); payment technologies (e.g., real time payments, payment card tokenization, virtual currencies, including distributed ledger and blockchain technologies, and proximity payment technology, such as nfc and other contactless payments); technologies (e.g., internet browser technology, that enable users to easily store their payment card information for use on any retail or e-commerce website; and commerce technologies, including in-store, online, mobile, virtual, and social commerce (i.e., ecommerce through social networks). 14 table of contents as a result, we expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve, and we cannot predict the effects of technological changes on our business. in addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors, for the development of and access to new or evolving technologies. these third parties may restrict or prevent our access to, or utilization of, those technologies, as well as their platforms or products. in addition, we may not be able to accurately predict which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted and how those technologies may be regulated. we expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge and may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. developing and incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures, take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. in addition, our ability to adopt new products and services and to develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, platform providers, payments networks, changes to laws and regulations, the extent of changing expectations of consumers or merchants, third-party intellectual property rights, or other factors. our success will depend on our ability to develop and incorporate new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards; if we are unable to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could result in serious harm to our reputation, business, and financial condition. our business involves the collection, storage, processing, and transmission of confidential information and customers' personal data, including financial information and information about how they interact with our payments platform. we have built our reputation on the premise that our payments platform offers customers a more secure way to make payments. an increasing number of organizations, including large merchants, businesses, technology companies, and financial institutions, as well as government institutions, have disclosed breaches of their information security systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks, including on their websites, mobile applications, and infrastructure. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized, improper, or illegal access to systems and information (including customers' personal data), disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly evolving and have become increasingly complex and sophisticated, may be difficult to detect quickly, and often are not recognized or detected until after they have been launched against a target. unauthorized parties have attempted, and we expect that they will continue to attempt, to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including, but not limited to, hacking into our systems or facilities or those of our customers, partners, or vendors, and attempting to fraudulently induce users of our systems (including employees and our customers) into disclosing user names, passwords, payment card information, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. threats can come from a variety of sources, including criminal hackers, hacktivists, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, and insider threats. certain efforts may be supported by significant financial and technological resources, making them even more sophisticated and difficult to detect. numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced and persisting cyberattacks, cyberextortion, spear phishing and social engineering schemes, the introduction of computer viruses or other malware, and the physical destruction of all or portions of our information technology and infrastructure could compromise the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the data in our systems. we believe that paypal is a particularly attractive target for such breaches and attacks due to our name and brand recognition and the widespread adoption and use of our products and services. although we have developed systems and processes designed to protect data we manage, prevent data loss and other security breaches and effectively respond to known and potential risks, and expect to continue to expend significant resources to bolster these protections, there can be no assurance that these security measures will provide absolute security or prevent breaches or attacks. our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security breaches, and third parties may be able to access our customers' personal or proprietary information and payment card data that are stored on or accessible through those systems. we have experienced from time to time, and may experience in the future, breaches of our security measures due to human error, malfeasance, insider threats, system errors or vulnerabilities, or other irregularities. actual or perceived breaches of our security could, among other things: interrupt our operations, result in our systems or services being unavailable, result in improper disclosure of data and violations of applicable privacy and other laws, materially harm our reputation and brands, result in significant regulatory scrutiny, investigations, fines, penalties and other legal and financial exposure, cause us to incur significant remediation costs, lead to loss of customer confidence in, or decreased use of, our products and services, divert the attention of management from the operation of our business, result in significant compensation or contractual penalties from us to our customers and their business partners as a result of losses to them or claims by them, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 15 table of contents in addition, any cyberattacks or data security breaches affecting the information technology or infrastructure of companies we acquire or of our customers, partners, or vendors (including data center and cloud computing providers) could have similar negative effects. see note 4 business combinations, note 5 goodwill and intangible assets and note 13 commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements for disclosure relating to the suspension of operations of tio networks ( tio ) (which we acquired in july 2017) as part of an investigation of security vulnerabilities of the tio platform. actual or perceived vulnerabilities or data breaches have led and may lead to claims against us. in addition, under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, or that is stored by our direct payment card processing vendors, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. we also expect to expend significant additional resources to protect against security or privacy breaches and may be required to redress problems caused by breaches. financial services regulators in various jurisdictions, including the u.s. and the eu, have implemented authentication requirements for banks and payment processors intended to reduce online fraud, which could impose significant costs, require us to change our business practices, make it more difficult for new customers to join paypal, and reduce the ease of use of our products, which could harm our business. while we maintain insurance policies, they may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products, or services could harm our business. our systems and those of our service providers and partners have experienced from time to time, and may experience in the future service interruptions or degradation because of hardware and software defects or malfunctions, distributed denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, insider threats, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, and other natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. we have experienced from time to time, and may experience in the future, disruptions in our systems due to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. some of our systems, including systems of companies we have acquired, are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all possible outcomes or events. in addition, as a provider of payments solutions, we are subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators that may require specific business continuity, resiliency and disaster recovery plans, and more rigorous testing of such plans, which may be costly and time-consuming to implement, and may divert our resources from other business priorities. we have experienced and expect to continue to experience system failures, denial-of-service attacks, and other events or conditions from time to time that interrupt the availability, or reduce or adversely affect the speed or functionality, of our products and services. these events have resulted and likely will result in loss of revenue. a prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the availability, speed, or functionality of our products and services could materially harm our business. frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential customers or partners to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid or reduce the use of our products and services, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. moreover, if any system failure or similar event results in damages to our customers or their business partners, these customers or partners could seek significant compensation or contractual penalties from us for their losses, and those claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address, and could have other consequences described in this risk factors section under the caption cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could result in serious harm to our reputation, business, and financial condition. our payments platform has experienced and may in the future experience intermittent unavailability. the full-time availability and expeditious delivery of our products and services is critical to our goal of gaining widespread acceptance among consumers and merchants for digital payments. we have undertaken and continue to undertake certain system upgrades and re-platforming efforts designed to improve our reliability and speed. these efforts are costly and time-consuming, involve significant technical risk and may divert our resources from new features and products, and there can be no guarantee that these efforts will succeed. because we are a regulated financial institution in certain jurisdictions, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to regulatory scrutiny, significant fines and penalties, and mandatory and costly changes to our business practices, and ultimately could cause us to lose existing licenses that we need to operate or prevent or delay us from obtaining additional licenses that may be required for our business. 16 table of contents we also rely on facilities, components, applications, and services supplied by third parties, including data center facilities and cloud storage services, which subjects us to risks in the nature of those discussed in this risk factors section under the captions we rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, which creates additional risk . from time to time, such third parties have ceased to provide us with such facilities and services. additionally, if these third parties experience operational interference or disruptions, breach their agreements with us, fail to perform their obligations and meet our expectations, or experience a cybersecurity incident, our operations could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, regulatory scrutiny, and damage to our reputation and brands, and materially and adversely affect our business. while we maintain business interruption insurance, our coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for all losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. in addition, we are continually improving and upgrading our information systems and technologies. implementation of new systems and technologies is complex, expensive, and time-consuming. if we fail to timely and successfully implement new information systems and technologies, or improvements or upgrades to existing information systems and technologies, or if such systems and technologies do not operate as intended, this could have an adverse impact on our business, internal controls (including internal controls over financial reporting), results of operations, and financial condition. changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm our business. we rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions and pay fees for their services. from time to time, payment card networks have increased, and may continue to increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for transactions that access their networks. payment card networks have imposed, and may impose in the future, special fees or assessments for transactions that are executed through a digital wallet such as paypal's, which could negatively impact us and significantly increase our costs. our payment card processors may have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to us as well as increase their own fees for processing, which could increase our operating costs and reduce our operating income. we have entered into strategic partnerships with visa, mastercard and other credit card networks to further expand our relationships in a way that will make it easier for merchants to accept and consumers to choose to pay with their respective credit cards and debit cards. during the terms of these agreements, visa and mastercard have each agreed to not enact or impose any fees or rules that solely target paypal. upon termination of the agreements, paypal could become subject to special digital wallet fees or other special assessments. in addition, in some jurisdictions, government regulations have required payment card networks to reduce or cap interchange fees. any material change in credit card or debit card interchange rates in the u.s. or other markets, including as a result of changes in interchange fee limitations, could adversely affect our competitive position against traditional payment card service providers and our business, as well as the revenue we earn from our card programs. we are required to comply with payment card network operating rules, including special operating rules for payment service providers to merchants. we have agreed to reimburse our processors for any fines they are assessed by payment card networks resulting from any rule violations by us or our merchants. we may also be directly liable to the payment card networks for rule violations. the payment card networks set and interpret the card operating rules and have alleged from time to time that various aspects of our business model violate these operating rules. if such allegations are not resolved favorably, they may result in significant fines and penalties or require changes in our business practices that may be costly and adversely affect our business. the payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or re-interpret existing rules that we or our processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or costly to implement. as a result, we could lose our ability to give consumers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or the choice of currency in which they would like their payment card to be charged. if we are unable to accept payment cards or are limited in our ability to do so, our business would be adversely affected. we and our payment card processors have implemented specific business processes for merchants to comply with payment card network operating rules for providing services to merchants. any failure to comply with these rules could result in fines. we are also subject to fines from payment card networks if we fail to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or considered high risk under their network operating rules, including the sale of certain types of digital content. for high risk merchants, we must either prevent such merchants from using paypal services or register such merchants with the payment card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. although the amount of these fines has not been material to date, we could be subject to significant additional fines in the future, which could result in a termination of our ability to accept payment cards or require changes in our process for registering new customers, which would adversely affect our business. payment card network rules may also increase the cost of, impose restrictions on, or otherwise negatively impact the development of, our retail point-of-sale solutions, which may negatively impact their deployment and adoption. 17 table of contents failure to deal effectively with fraud, fictitious transactions, bad transactions, and negative customer experiences would increase our loss rate and could negatively impact our business and severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services. our operations process a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis. in the event that merchants do not fulfill their obligations to consumers or a merchant's goods or services do not match the merchant's description, we may incur substantial losses as a result of claims from consumers. we seek to recover such losses from the merchant but we may not fully recover them if the merchant is unwilling or unable to pay. in addition, in the event of the bankruptcy or other business interruption of a merchant that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (e.g., airline, cruise or concert tickets, custom-made goods, and subscriptions), we could be liable to the buyers of such goods or services, either through our buyer protection program or through chargebacks on payment cards used by customers to fund their payments. while we have established allowances for transaction losses based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such losses incurred as of the reporting date, these reserves may be insufficient. we also incur substantial losses from claims that the consumer did not authorize the purchase, fraud, erroneous transactions, and customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in their bank accounts to satisfy payments. in addition, if losses incurred by us related to payment card transactions become excessive, they could potentially result in our losing the right to accept payment cards for payment, which would negatively impact our business. we have taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures require continuous improvement and may not be effective in detecting and preventing fraud, particularly new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new or expanded product offerings. if these measures do not succeed, our business could be negatively impacted. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could materially and adversely affect our financial results. we have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, including the british pound, euro, australian dollar, and canadian dollar, which subject us to foreign currency exchange risk. the strengthening or weakening of the u.s. dollar versus these foreign currencies impacts the translation of our net revenues generated and expenses incurred in these foreign currencies into the u.s. dollar. in connection with providing our services in multiple currencies, we may face financial exposure if we incorrectly set our foreign currency exchange rates or as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates between the times that we set them. we also hold a portion of our corporate and customer funds in non-u.s. currencies, and our financial results are affected by the remeasurement of these non-u.s. currencies into u.s. dollars. we also have foreign currency exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. while we regularly enter into transactions to hedge foreign currency exchange risk for portions of our foreign currency translation and balance sheet exposure, it is impossible to predict or entirely eliminate the effects of this exposure. any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business. cross-border trade (i.e., transactions where the merchant and consumer are in different countries) is an important source of our revenue and profits. cross-border transactions generally provide higher revenues and operating income than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. cross-border trade also represents our primary (and in some cases, our only) presence in certain important markets. cross-border trade is subject to, and may be negatively impacted by, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. in addition, the interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the merchant and of the consumer) are often extremely complicated in the context of cross-border trade and foreign exchange. changes to or the interpretation and/or application of laws and regulations applicable to cross-border trade and foreign exchange could impose additional requirements and restrictions, increase costs, and impose conflicting obligations. any factors that increase the costs of cross-border trade for us or our customers or that restrict, delay, or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical, such as trade policy or higher tariffs, could reduce our cross-border transactions and volume, negatively impact our revenues and profits and harm our business. see also the risk factor captioned, global and regional economic conditions could harm our business. 18 table of contents changes in how consumers fund their paypal transactions could harm our business. we pay transaction fees when consumers fund payment transactions using credit cards, lower fees when consumers fund payments with debit cards, and nominal fees when consumers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, or from an existing paypal account balance or through our paypal branded consumer credit products. our financial success is sensitive to changes in the rate at which our consumers fund payments using payment cards, which can significantly increase our costs. although we provide consumers in certain markets with the opportunity to use their existing paypal account balance to fund payment transactions, some of our consumers may prefer to use payment cards, especially if these payment cards offer features and benefits that are not provided as part of their paypal accounts. an increase in the portion of our payment volume funded using payment cards or in fees associated with our funding mix, or other events or developments that make it more difficult or costly for us to fund transactions with lower-cost funding options, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business. we have entered into strategic partnerships with major payment card networks and/or issuing banks to promote greater consumer choice and make it easier for merchants to accept and consumers to pay with these partners' credit cards and/or debit cards and to allow us to gain access to these partners' tokenization services for in-store point of sale paypal transactions. these arrangements may have an uncertain impact on our business. while we anticipate that these and similar strategic partnerships we may enter into in the future will result in an increase in the number of transactions and transaction volume that we process, we also anticipate that a greater percentage of customer transactions will be executed using a payment card, which would likely increase the transaction costs associated with our funding mix, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and profitability. the united kingdom's departure from the eu could adversely affect us. the united kingdom ( u.k. ) held a referendum in june 2016 in which a majority of voters approved an exit from the european union ( eu ) (commonly referred to as brexit ). the u.k. formally exited the eu on january 31, 2020 and a transition period is in place until december 31, 2020 during which time the u.k. will remain in both the eu customs union and single market and follow eu rules. there is a significant lack of clarity over the terms of the u.k.'s future relationship with the eu after this date. brexit could therefore adversely affect u.k., regional (including european), and worldwide economic and market conditions and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign currency exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the british pound and euro, which in turn could adversely affect us or our customers and companies with which we do business, particularly in the u.k. brexit could lead to greater restrictions on the supply and availability of goods and services between the u.k. and the eea region, with the potential inability of u.k. companies to fulfill orders which could lead to a risk of increased merchant defaults and buyer protection claims. brexit could also trigger a general deterioration in credit conditions, a downturn in consumer sentiment, and overall negative economic growth. any of these scenarios could have an adverse effect on our business or our customers. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and increased complexity for financial services firms as national laws and regulations in the u.k. start to diverge from eu laws and regulations. in particular, depending on the terms of brexit, we may face new regulatory costs and challenges, including the following: if we are unable to utilize appropriate authorizations and regulatory permissions, our european operations could lose their ability to offer services into the u.k. market on a cross-border basis and for our u.k. based operations to offer services on a cross-border basis in the european markets. for example, our ability to work primarily with the luxembourg regulator as the lead authority for various aspects of the u.k. operations of paypal (europe) s. .r.l. et cie., sca ( paypal (europe) ) and with the swedish regulator for various aspects of the u.k. operations of izettle ab ( izettle ) may be impacted; we could be required to obtain additional regulatory permissions to operate in the u.k. market, adding costs and potential inconsistency to our business. depending on the capacity of the u.k. authorities, the criteria for obtaining permission, and any possible transitional arrangements, our business in the u.k. could be materially affected or disrupted; we could be required to comply with legal and regulatory requirements in the u.k. that are in addition to, or inconsistent with, those of the eu, leading to increased complexity and costs for our european and u.k. operations; and our ability to attract and retain the necessary human resources in appropriate locations to support our u.k. and european business could be adversely impacted. these and other factors related to brexit could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 19 table of contents our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. our failure to comply with extensive, complex, overlapping, and frequently changing rules, regulations, and legal interpretations could materially harm our business. our business is subject to laws, rules, regulations, policies, and legal interpretations in the markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, those governing: banking, credit, deposit taking, cross-border and domestic money transmission, prepaid access, foreign currency exchange, privacy, data governance, data protection, cybersecurity, banking secrecy, fraud detection, payment services (including payment processing and settlement services), consumer protection, antitrust and competition, economic and trade sanctions, anti-money laundering, and counter-terrorist financing. our success and increased visibility may result in increased regulatory oversight and enforcement and more restrictive rules and regulations that apply to our business. as we expand and localize our international activities, we have become increasingly obligated to comply with the laws of the markets in which we operate. in addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and provide services to customers worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our customers are required to comply with their laws. laws regulating the internet, mobile, and related technologies outside of the u.s. often impose different, more specific, or even conflicting obligations on us, as well as broader liability. for example, certain transactions that may be permissible in a local jurisdiction may be prohibited by regulations of u.s. department of treasury's office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) or u.s. anti-money laundering or counter-terrorist financing regulations. 20 table of contents any failure or perceived failure to comply with existing or new laws, regulations, or orders of any government authority (including changes to or expansion of the interpretation of those laws, regulations, or orders), including those discussed in this risk factor, may subject us to significant fines, penalties, criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, and enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions; result in additional compliance and licensure requirements; cause us to lose existing licenses or prevent or delay us from obtaining additional licenses that may be required for our business; increase regulatory scrutiny of our business; restrict our operations; and force us to change our business practices, make product or operational changes, or delay planned transactions, product launches or improvements. any of the foregoing could, individually or in the aggregate, harm our reputation, damage our brands and business, and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the complexity of u.s. federal and state and international regulatory and enforcement regimes, coupled with the global scope of our operations and the evolving global regulatory environment, could result in a single event prompting a large number of overlapping investigations and legal and regulatory proceedings by multiple government authorities in different jurisdictions. we have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, and agents will not violate such laws and regulations. payments regulation in the u.s., paypal, inc. has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent) in the states where such licenses are required, as well as in the district of columbia, the u.s. virgin islands, and puerto rico. these licenses include not only the paypal branded products and services in these states, but also our braintree, venmo, and xoom products and services. we may also maintain such licenses for certain companies that we have acquired, such as hyperwallet. as a licensed money transmitter, paypal is subject to, among other requirements, restrictions with respect to the investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. accordingly, if we violate these laws or regulations, we could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change our business practices, or required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals, which could impose substantial costs. while we currently allow our customers with payment cards to send payments from approximately 200 markets, we allow customers in only approximately half of those markets (including the u.s.) to also receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can hold balances or withdraw funds. these limitations may adversely affect our ability to grow our business in these markets. we principally provide our services to customers in the eu through paypal (europe), our wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a credit institution in luxembourg. accordingly, paypal (europe) is potentially subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, data governance, information security, banking secrecy, taxation, risk management, sanctions, or other requirements imposed on luxembourg credit institutions. in addition, eu laws and regulations are subject to potentially inconsistent interpretations by the countries that are members of the eu, which can make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. moreover, the countries that are eu members may each have different and potentially inconsistent domestic regulations implementing european directives, which could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. the revised payment services directive ( psd2 ) took effect in europe in 2018, with certain requirements becoming applicable from 2019 or later. psd2 enables new payment and information sharing models whereby regulated payment providers are able to access bank and payment accounts (including paypal accounts) for the purposes of accessing account information or initiating a payment on behalf of a customer. such access could subject us to data security and other legal and financial risks and could create new competitive forces and new types of competitors in the european payments market. psd2 also imposes new standards for payment security and strong customer authentication ( sca ) that may make it more difficult and time consuming to carry out a paypal transaction, which may adversely impact paypal's european customer value proposition. sca was implemented in 2019. in line with an opinion issued by the european banking authority ( eba ), national competent authorities (including luxembourg) have announced enforcement deferral periods for migration to sca requirements for e-commerce card-based transactions. paypal (europe) has implemented sca customer processes covering the majority of payment transactions initiated within the eu and has plans to finalize full compliance with sca; amending or accelerating these plans may adversely impact paypal's european customer value proposition. 21 table of contents if the business activities of paypal (europe) exceed certain thresholds, or if the european central bank ( ecb ) so determines, paypal (europe) may be deemed a significant supervised entity such that some activity of paypal (europe) could become directly regulated by the ecb rather than the cssf, the luxembourg regulator , as its national supervisor, which could subject us to additional requirements and would likely increase compliance costs. in many of the other markets outside the u.s. in which we do business, we serve our customers through paypal pte. ltd., our wholly-owned subsidiary based in singapore. paypal pte. ltd. is supervised by the monetary authority of singapore and designated as a holder of a stored value facility, but does not hold a remittance license. as a result, paypal pte. ltd. is not able to offer outbound remittance payments from singapore, and can only offer payments for the purchase of goods and services in singapore. in many of the markets (other than singapore) served by paypal pte. ltd., it is unclear and uncertain whether our singapore-based service is subject only to singapore law or, if it is subject to the application of local laws, whether such local laws would require a payment processor like us to be licensed as a payments service, bank, financial institution, or otherwise. the payment services act ( ps act ) passed into law in singapore in january 2019 and is expected to come into effect in 2020. under the ps act, paypal pte. ltd. will be required to apply for a license to continue to provide payments services in singapore. furthermore, once the ps act comes into force and is fully implemented, we may face new regulatory costs and challenges, including the following: we could be required to comply with new regulatory requirements, resulting in increased complexity and costs for our singapore and international operations; we could be required to make changes to our compliance program, resulting in increased complexity and costs to operate both in singapore as well as in the cross-border markets which are served by paypal pte. ltd; and we could be required to comply with additional safeguarding requirements, which could increase our operational costs. in certain markets outside the u.s. (e.g., australia), we provide our services to customers through a local subsidiary subject to local regulatory supervision or oversight, which may be the holder of a local payment license, certification, or other authorization. in such markets, we may be subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if we violate applicable reporting, anti-money laundering, capital requirements, privacy, corporate governance, risk management, or any other applicable requirements. paypal australia pty limited ( ppau ) self-reported a potential violation to the australian transaction reports and analysis centre ( austrac ) on may 22, 2019 with respect to the reporting of international funds transfer instructions under the anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing act 2006 ( aml/ctf act ). please see note 13 commitments and contingencies litigation and regulatory matters for additional disclosure regarding this matter. from time to time, we may acquire entities subject to local regulatory supervision or oversight. for example, in december 2019, we completed our acquisition of a 70% equity stake in guofubao information technology co. (gopay), ltd. ( gopay ), a provider of online payment services in china. gopay holds a number of payment business licenses in china and is subject to regulatory supervision by the people's bank of china and other regulatory bodies. we have been, and expect to continue to be, required to apply for various licenses, certifications, and regulatory approvals in a number of the jurisdictions where we provide our services, including due to changes in applicable laws and regulations or the interpretation of such laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to (or decide to) obtain any such licenses, certifications, and approvals. in addition, there are substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining and renewing such licenses, certifications, and approvals, and we could be subject to fines, other enforcement action, and litigation if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance, or other requirements of such licenses. these factors could impose substantial additional costs, involve considerable delay to the development or provision of our products or services, require significant and costly operational changes, or prevent us from providing our products or services in a given market. in many countries, it may not be clear whether we are required to be licensed as a payment services provider, bank, financial institution, or otherwise. in such markets, we may rely on local banks to process payments and conduct foreign currency exchange transactions in local currency. local regulators may use their authority to slow or halt payments to local merchants conducted through local banks or otherwise prohibit or impede us from doing business in a jurisdiction. such regulatory actions or the need to obtain licenses, certifications, or other regulatory approvals could impose substantial costs, involve considerable delay to the provision or development of our services, require significant and costly operational changes, impose restrictions, limitations, or additional requirements on our business, or prevent us from providing any products or services in a given market. 22 table of contents consumer protection we are subject to consumer protection, antitrust and competition-related laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. in the u.s., we are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations applicable to our activities, including the electronic fund transfer act ( efta ) and regulation e as implemented by the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ). these regulations require us to provide advance disclosure of changes to our services, follow specified error resolution procedures, and reimburse consumers for losses from certain transactions not authorized by the consumer. additionally, technical violations of consumer protection laws could result in the assessment of actual damages or statutory damages or penalties of up to $1,000 in individual cases or up to $500,000 per violation in any class action and treble damages in some instances; we could also be liable for plaintiffs' attorneys' fees in such cases. we are subject to, and have paid amounts in settlement of, lawsuits containing allegations that our business violated the efta and regulation e or otherwise advance claims for relief relating to our business practices (e.g., that we improperly held consumer funds or otherwise improperly limited consumer accounts). the cfpb issued a final rule on prepaid accounts that came into effect on april 1, 2019. the rule's definition of prepaid account includes certain accounts that are capable of being loaded with funds and whose primary function is to conduct transactions with multiple, unaffiliated merchants, at atms and/or for p2p transfers. that definition includes certain digital wallets. the rule's requirements include, among other things, the disclosure of fees and other information to the consumer prior to the creation of a prepaid account; the extension of regulation e liability limits and error-resolution requirements to all prepaid accounts; the application of regulation z credit card requirements to prepaid accounts with overdraft and credit features; and the submission of prepaid account agreements to the cfpb and their publication to the general public. we have implemented certain changes to comply with the final rule and made substantial changes to the design of certain u.s. consumer accounts and their operability, which could lead to unintended customer confusion and dissatisfaction, discourage customers from opening new accounts, require us to reallocate resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business. in december 2019, we filed a lawsuit in the u.s. district court for the district of columbia against the cfpb challenging the validity of the prepaid account rule as applied to paypal, inc. as with any litigation, there is no guarantee that our claims will succeed. in may 2015, we entered into a stipulated final judgment and consent order ( consent order ) with the cfpb in which we settled regulatory claims arising from paypal credit practices between 2011 and 2015. the consent order included obligations of paypal to pay $15 million in redress to consumers and a $10 million civil monetary penalty, and required paypal to make various changes to paypal credit disclosures and related business practices. we continue to cooperate and engage with the cfpb and work to ensure compliance with the consent order, which may result in us incurring additional costs. paypal principally offers its services in eea countries through a passport notification process through the luxembourg regulator (in the case of paypal (europe)) or the swedish regulator (in the case of izettle ab) to regulators in other eea member states in accordance with eu regulations. regulators in these countries could notify us of local consumer protection laws that apply to our business, in addition to luxembourg or swedish consumer protection laws, and could also seek to persuade the local regulator to order paypal to conduct its activities in the local country directly or through a branch office. similarly, as a result of brexit, the u.k. regulators may impose new or different legal requirements on our u.k. business, or require our activities to be conducted locally in the u.k. through a branch office or directly. these or similar actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, our plans to expand our business in eea countries. economic and trade sanctions we are required to comply with economic and trade sanctions administered by the u.s, the eu, relevant eu member states, and other jurisdictions in which we operate. we have self-reported to ofac certain transactions that were inadvertently processed but subsequently identified as possible violations of u.s. economic and trade sanctions. in march 2015, we reached a settlement with ofac regarding possible violations arising from our sanctions compliance practices between 2009 and 2013, prior to the implementation of our real-time transaction scanning program. subsequently, we have self-reported additional transactions as possible violations, and we have received new subpoenas from ofac seeking additional information about certain of these transactions. such self-reported transactions could result in claims or actions against us, including litigation, injunctions, damage awards, fines or penalties, or require us to change our business practices in a manner that could result in a material loss, require significant management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or otherwise harm our business. 23 table of contents anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing we are subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, our involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. regulators in the u.s. and other regulators globally continue to increase their scrutiny of compliance with these obligations, which may require us to further revise or expand our compliance program, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of our customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. many countries in which we operate also have anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and we have been and will continue to be required to make changes to our compliance program in various jurisdictions in response. such changes could have the effect of making compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage, lead to increased friction for customers, and result in a decrease in business. regulators regularly re-examine the transaction volume thresholds at which we must obtain and keep applicable records or verify identities of customers and any change in such thresholds could result in greater costs for compliance. non-compliance with anti-money laundering laws may subject us to significant fines, penalties, lawsuits, and enforcement actions, result in regulatory sanctions and additional compliance requirements, increase regulatory scrutiny of our business, restrict our operations or damage our reputation and brands. in the eu, for example, penalties for non-compliance with anti-money laundering laws could include fines of up to 10% of paypal (europe)'s total annual turnover. privacy and protection of user data we are subject to a number of laws, rules, directives, and regulations (which we refer to as privacy and data protection laws ) relating to the collection, use, retention, security, processing, and transfer (which we collectively refer to as processing ) of personally identifiable information about our customers and employees (which we refer to as personal data ) in the countries where we operate. our business relies on the processing of personal data in many jurisdictions and the movement of data across national borders. as a result, much of the personal data that we process, which may include certain financial information associated with individuals, is regulated by multiple privacy and data protection laws and, in some cases, the privacy and data protection laws of multiple jurisdictions. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between or among us, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relationships. regulatory scrutiny of privacy, data protection, cybersecurity practices, and the processing of personal data is increasing around the world. there is uncertainty associated with the legal and regulatory environment relating to privacy and data protection laws, which continue to develop in ways we cannot predict, including with respect to evolving technologies such as cloud computing, artificial intelligence, and blockchain technology. any failure or perceived failure to comply with existing or new laws of any government authority (including changes to or expansion of the interpretation of those laws), including those discussed in this risk factor, may subject us to significant fines, penalties, civil lawsuits, and enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions, result in additional compliance requirements, increase regulatory scrutiny of our business, restrict our operations, and force us to change our business practices, make product or operational changes, or delay planned product launches or improvements. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our privacy policies as communicated to users in one or more jurisdictions could result in proceedings or actions against us by data protection authorities, government entities or others, including class action privacy litigation in certain jurisdictions. such proceedings or actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments, and negative publicity which may materially harm our business. the foregoing may require us to change our business practices and would likely increase the costs and complexity of compliance. in addition, compliance with inconsistent privacy and data protection laws may restrict our ability to provide products and services to our customers. paypal relies on a variety of compliance methods to transfer personal data of eea individuals to the u.s., including reliance on binding corporate rules ( bcrs ) for internal transfers of certain types of personal data and standard contractual clauses ( sccs ) as approved by the european commission for transfers to and from third parties. paypal must also ensure that third parties processing personal data of paypal's eea customers and/or employees outside of the eea have compliant transfer mechanisms. in october 2015, the european court of justice invalidated u.s.-eu safe harbor framework clauses that were previously relied upon by some paypal vendors to lawfully transfer personal data of eu citizens to u.s. companies, and paypal entered into sccs with those third parties which had previously relied on the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework. in july 2016, the u.s. and eu authorities agreed on a replacement for the safe harbor framework known as privacy shield. both the privacy shield framework and sccs continue to face legal challenges in the european justice system. to the extent that the privacy shield or sccs are invalidated, paypal's ability to process eea personal data with third parties outside of the eea and intra-group with its u.s. affiliates could be jeopardized. 24 table of contents if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their financial or performance obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents, receivables outstanding, and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the u.s. and abroad. as part of our currency hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments with various financial institutions. certain banks and financial institutions are also lenders under our credit facilities. we regularly monitor our exposure to counterparty credit risk, and actively manage this exposure to mitigate the associated risk. despite these efforts, we may be exposed to the risk of default by, or deteriorating operating results or financial condition or failure of, these counterparty financial institutions. the risk of counterparty default, deterioration, or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. if one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to access or recover our assets that are deposited, held in accounts with, or otherwise due from, such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. in the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. paypal is not a bank or licensed lender in the u.s. and relies upon third parties to make loans and provide other products critical to our business, which raises additional risks. as paypal is neither a chartered financial institution, nor licensed to make loans in any state in the u.s., we rely on third-party chartered financial institutions to provide paypal branded credit products to our customers in the u.s., including consumer credit products such as paypal credit, paypal branded credit cards, and merchant credit products such as paypal working capital and paypal business loan products. any termination or interruption in a partner bank's ability or willingness to lend could interrupt or limit our ability to offer consumer credit and merchant credit products, which could materially and adversely affect our business. in the event of a partner bank's inability or unwillingness to lend, we may be unable to reach a similar agreement with another charter financial institution on favorable terms or at all. obtaining a bank charter or lending licenses would be a costly, time-consuming and uncertain process, and would subject us to additional laws and regulatory requirements, which could significantly increase our costs and compliance obligations and require us to change our business practices, which could materially and adversely affect our business. in addition, as a service provider to these bank partners, which are federally supervised u.s. financial institutions, we are subject from time to time to examination by their federal banking regulators. in july 2018, we completed the sale of our u.s. consumer credit receivables portfolio to synchrony bank. as a part of a separate agreement, paypal earns a revenue share on the portfolio of consumer receivables owned by synchrony bank, which includes both the sold and newly generated receivables, and we do not hold an ownership interest in newly generated consumer credit receivables. it may take us longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. in addition, our increased reliance on, and credit exposure to, synchrony bank, including in connection with this agreement, subjects us to risks in the nature of those discussed in this risk factors section under the captions we rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, which creates additional risk and if one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their financial or performance obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. our ability to receive the benefit of our business finance offerings may be subject to challenge. merchant loans and advances under our paypal working capital and paypal business loan products are provided by a state chartered industrial bank under a program agreement with us. we acquire the receivables generated by those loans after origination. a case decided in the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit, madden v. midland funding, llc ( 786 f.3d 246 (2d cir. 2015)), resulted in uncertainty as to whether non-bank entities purchasing loans originated by a bank may rely on federal preemption of state usury laws, and may create an increased risk of litigation by plaintiffs challenging our ability to collect interest and fees in accordance with the terms of certain loans. the decision, which specifically addressed preemption under the national bank act, could support future challenges to federal preemption for other institutions, including fdic-insured, state chartered industrial banks like the issuing bank of loans and advances under paypal working capital and paypal business loan products. there continue to be a number of u.s. state and federal court legal actions challenging the viability of business models where a non-bank entity enters into a relationship with a third-party chartered financial institution for the issuance of credit products. while we believe the manner in which paypal branded credit products are offered can be distinguished from madden , there can be no assurance as to the outcome of any potential litigation, and an adverse determination could materially impact our paypal working capital and paypal business loan products and our business. 25 table of contents some of our credit products expose us to additional risks. we offer our paypal credit consumer product and our paypal working capital and paypal business loan products to a wide range of consumers and merchants in various markets, and the financial success of these products depends on the effective management of related risk. the credit decision-making process for the paypal credit consumer product uses proprietary segmentation and credit algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of specific consumers based on, among other factors, their past purchasing and payment history with paypal as well as their credit scores. similarly, proprietary risk models and other indicators are applied to assess merchants who desire to use our business finance offerings to help predict their ability to repay. these risk models may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer or merchant due to factors such as inaccurate assumptions, including assumptions related to the particular consumer or merchant, market conditions, economic environment, or limited transaction history or other data, among other factors. the accuracy of these risk models and the ability to manage credit risk related to our credit products may also be affected by legal or regulatory requirements, competitors' actions, changes in consumer behavior, changes in the economic environment, and other factors. our international expansion of our credit product offerings expose us to additional risks, including those discussed in the risk factor captioned our international operations subject us to increased risks, which could harm our business. like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from merchant credit, we face the risk that account holders will default on their payment obligations, creating the risk of potential charge-offs. we face similar risks with respect to u.s. consumer credit losses through the profit-sharing arrangement with synchrony bank. the non-payment rate among account holders may increase due to, among other factors, changes to underwriting standards, risk models not accurately predicting the creditworthiness of a consumer, worsening economic conditions, such as a recession or government austerity programs, increases in prevailing interest rates, and high unemployment rates. account holders who miss payments often fail to repay their loans, and account holders who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their loans. we currently purchase receivables related to the paypal branded merchant credit products in the u.s. if we are unable to fund our purchase of these receivables adequately or in a cost-effective manner, or if we are unable to efficiently manage the cash resources utilized for these purposes, our business could be harmed. catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business war, terrorism, political events, geopolitical instability, trade barriers and restrictions, public health issues, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events have caused and could cause damage or disruption to the economy and commerce on a global, regional, or country-specific basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, our customers, and companies with which we do business. such events could decrease demand for our products and services or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products and services to our customers. geopolitical trends, including nationalism, protectionism, and restrictive visa requirements could limit the expansion of our business in those regions. our corporate headquarters are located in the silicon valley, which is a seismically active region in california. our business operations are subject to interruption by, among others, natural disasters, fire, power shortages, earthquakes, floods, nuclear power plant accidents, and events beyond our control such as other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes and public health issues. a catastrophic event that results in a disruption or failure of our systems or operations could result in significant losses and require substantial recovery time and significant expenditures in order to resume or maintain operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. changes to our buyer and seller protection programs could increase our loss rate. our buyer and seller protection programs protect merchants and consumers from fraudulent transactions, and protect consumers if they do not receive the item ordered or if the item received is significantly different from its description. in addition, consumers who pay through paypal may have reimbursement rights from their payment card issuer (usually a bank), which in turn will seek recovery from us. the risk of losses from our buyer and seller protection programs are specific to individual buyers, sellers, and transactions, and may also be impacted by regional variations to these programs, modifications to these programs resulting from changes in regulatory requirements, or changes that we decide to implement, such as expanding the scope of transactions covered by one or more of these programs. increases in our loss rate, including as a result of changes to our buyer and seller protection programs, could negatively impact our business. 26 table of contents our international operations subject us to increased risks, which could harm our business. our international operations have generated approximately one-half of our net revenues in recent years. there are risks inherent in doing business internationally on both a domestic (i.e., in-country) and cross-border basis, including, but not limited to: foreign currency exchange and cross-border trade risks discussed earlier in this risk factors section under the captions we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could materially and adversely affect our financial results and any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business ; risks related to government regulation or required compliance with local laws; local licensing and reporting obligations; local regulatory and legal obligations related to privacy, data protection, data localization, and user protections; costs and challenges associated with localizing our products and services, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency and adapting our products and services to local preferences (e.g., payment methods), in markets in which we may have limited or no experience; trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; stringent local labor laws and regulations; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; profit repatriation restrictions; political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; geopolitical instability, natural disasters, public health issues, acts of war, and terrorism; import or export regulations; compliance with u.s. laws and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, and other local anticorruption laws; compliance with u.s. and foreign laws designed to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities; antitrust and competition regulations; potentially adverse tax developments and consequences; economic uncertainties relating to sovereign and other debt; national or regional differences in macroeconomic growth rates; and increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. violations of the complex foreign and u.s. laws, rules and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. these risks are inherent in our international operations and expansion, may increase our costs of doing business internationally, and could harm our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. we are exposed to interest rate risk from our investment portfolio and from interest-rate sensitive assets, including assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our balance sheet as customer accounts. a low or negative interest rate environment or reductions in interest rates may negatively impact our net income. in addition, fluctuations in interest rates may adversely impact our customers' spending levels and ability and willingness to pay outstanding amounts owed to us. higher interest rates often lead to higher payment obligations by customers to us and other lenders under mortgage, credit card, and other consumer and merchant loans, which may reduce our customers' ability to remain current on their obligations to us and therefore lead to increased delinquencies, charge-offs, and allowances for loan and interest receivables, which could have an adverse effect on our net income. we have entered into a five-year revolving credit facility and a 364-day revolving credit facility as well as other committed and uncommitted credit facilities around the world. we have borrowed under our credit facilities from time to time, and any borrowings under these credit facilities that bear interest at a floating rate would expose us to interest rate fluctuations. 27 table of contents use of our payments services for illegal purposes could harm our business. our payment system is susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses, including money laundering, terrorist financing, illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illegal sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software, movies, music, and other copyrighted or trademarked goods (in particular, digital goods), bank fraud, child pornography, human trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, securities fraud, pyramid or ponzi schemes, or the facilitation of other illegal activity. the use of our payment system for illegal or improper uses has subjected us, and may subject us in the future, to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, and government and regulatory investigations, inquiries, or requests that could result in liability and reputational harm for us. moreover, certain activity that may be legal in one jurisdiction may be illegal in another jurisdiction, and a merchant may be found responsible for intentionally or inadvertently importing or exporting illegal goods, resulting in liability for us. changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities, and government authorities may consider additional payments-related proposals from time to time. owners of intellectual property rights or government authorities may seek to bring legal action against providers of payments solutions, including paypal, that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing or allegedly infringing items. any threatened or resulting claims could result in reputational harm, and any resulting liabilities, loss of transaction volume, or increased costs could harm our business. our failure to manage our customer funds and the assets underlying our customer funds properly could harm our business. we hold a substantial amount of funds belonging to our customers, including balances in customer accounts and funds being remitted to sellers of goods and services or recipients of p2p transactions. in certain jurisdictions where we operate, we are required to hold eligible liquid assets (as defined by the relevant regulator in such jurisdiction) equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of all customer balances. our ability to manage and accurately account for the assets underlying our customer funds and comply with applicable liquid asset requirements requires a high level of internal controls. as our business continues to grow and we expand our product offerings, we must continue to strengthen our associated internal controls. paypal (europe), with the permission of the cssf, utilizes certain european customer balances held by our luxembourg banking subsidiary to fund credit balances relating to certain customers. our success requires significant public confidence in our ability to properly manage our customers' balances and handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. any failure to maintain the necessary controls or to manage our customer funds and the assets underlying our customer funds accurately and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements could result in reputational harm, lead customers to discontinue or reduce their use of our products, and result in significant penalties and fines and additional restrictions, which could materially harm our business. we are subject to regulatory activity and legal proceedings under antitrust and competition laws. we are subject to scrutiny by various government agencies regarding antitrust and competition laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally, including in connection with proposed business combinations, acquisitions, and investments. some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anticompetitive conduct. other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the u.s., individual states, other countries, or the eu, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. some regulators and legislators, particularly those outside of the u.s., may perceive that our products and services are used so broadly that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. any claims or investigations, even if without merit, may be very expensive to defend or respond to, involve negative publicity, and substantial diversion of management time and effort, and could result in reputational harm, significant judgments, fines or remedial actions against us, or require us to change our business practices, make product or operational changes, or delay or preclude planned transactions, product launches or improvements. we are subject to patent litigation. we have been sued repeatedly for allegedly infringing other parties' patents. at any given time, we are typically a defendant in a number of patent lawsuits. we expect that we will continue to be subject to patent infringement claims because, among other reasons: our products and services continue to expand in scope and complexity and to converge with technologies not previously associated with the payments space; we continue to expand into new business areas, including through acquisitions; and the number of patent owners who may claim that we, any of the companies that we have acquired, or our customers infringe their patents, and the aggregate number of patents controlled by such patent owners, continues to increase. 28 table of contents such claims may be brought directly against us or against our users, whom we may indemnify due to contractual obligations or as a business matter. we believe that many of the claims against us and other technology companies have been, and continue to be, initiated by third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. we vigorously defend against patent infringement claims. in addition, we have seen significant patent disputes between operating companies in some technology industries. patent claims, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, divert management's resources, be costly to manage, defend, and resolve and lead to attempts by other parties to pursue similar claims. additionally, patent claims could require us to make expensive changes in our methods of doing business, enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, make substantial payments to satisfy adverse judgments or settle claims or proceedings, or cease conducting certain operations, which would harm our business. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets, is important to the success of our business. we seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the u.s. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. we also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services, including confidentiality and invention assignment agreements entered into with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business. effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our products and services. we may be required to expend significant time and expense in order to prevent infringement or to enforce our rights. although we have generally taken measures to protect our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting or enforcing our rights in every jurisdiction, or that contractual arrangements and other steps that we have taken to protect our intellectual property will prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property or deter independent development of equivalent or superior intellectual property rights by others. if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering, or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute, or otherwise violate our trademark rights, the value of our brands could be diminished and our business could be adversely affected. we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. we have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. these licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. any failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or significant costs incurred in doing so, could diminish the value of our intangible assets and materially harm our business. as the number of products in the technology and payments industries increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual property infringement and other claims. litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of the patent and other intellectual property rights of others. the ultimate outcome of any allegation is often uncertain and, regardless of the outcome, any such claim, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management's time and attention from our business, and require us to, among other things, redesign or stop providing our products or services, pay substantial amounts to satisfy judgments or settle claims or lawsuits, pay substantial royalty or licensing fees, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with certain parties with whom we have commercial relationships. our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation or claims arising out of intellectual property matters, may harm or restrict our business. we are regularly subject to general litigation, regulatory actions, and government inquiries. we are regularly subject to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, government and regulatory investigations, inquiries, actions or requests, and other proceedings alleging violations of laws, rules, and regulations with respect to competition, antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, information security, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, sanctions, anti-corruption, consumer protection, fraud, accessibility, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, services, charitable fundraising, contract disputes, escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property, the matters described in note 13 commitments and contingencies litigation and regulatory matters general matters to our consolidated financial statements, and other matters. in particular, our business faces ongoing consumer protection and intellectual property litigation, as discussed above. the number and significance of these disputes and inquiries may increase as our business expands in scale, scope and geographic reach, and our products and services increase in scale and complexity. in addition, the laws, rules and regulations affecting our business, including those pertaining to internet and mobile commerce, data protection, payments services, and credit, are subject to ongoing interpretation by the courts and government authorities, and the resulting uncertainty in their scope and application increases the risk that we will be subject to private claims and government actions alleging violations. 29 table of contents the scope, outcome, and impact of claims, lawsuits, government investigations, disputes, and proceedings to which we are subject cannot be predicted with certainty. regardless of the outcome, such matters can have an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, results of operations, or financial condition because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, reputational damage, and other factors. determining reserves for our pending litigation and regulatory proceedings is a complex, fact-intensive process that involves a high degree of judgment. resolving one or more of such legal and regulatory proceedings or other matters could potentially require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments, fines, or penalties or to settle claims or proceedings, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. these proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders that prevent us from offering certain products or services, require us to change our business practices in costly ways, or develop non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. any of these consequences could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. while certain of our customer agreements contain arbitration provisions with class action waiver provisions that may limit our exposure to consumer class action litigation, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in enforcing these arbitration provisions, including the class action waiver provisions, in the future or in any given case. legislative, administrative, or regulatory developments may directly or indirectly prohibit or limit the use of pre-dispute arbitration clauses and class action waiver provisions. any such prohibitions or limitations on or discontinuation of the use of, such arbitration or class action waiver provisions could subject us to additional lawsuits, including additional consumer class action litigation, and significantly limit our ability to avoid exposure from consumer class action litigation. changes in u.s. tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations, and financial conditions. in december 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act ). the tax act made changes to the corporate tax rate, business-related deductions, and taxation of foreign earnings, among others, that are generally effective for taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017. throughout 2018 and 2019, the u.s. treasury and certain states issued proposed and final legislation and clarifying guidance with respect to the various provisions of the tax act. additional legislation and guidance is expected to be issued in 2020 and could have a material adverse impact on the value of our u.s. deferred tax assets, result in significant changes to currently computed income tax liabilities for past and current tax periods, and increase our future u.s. tax expense. the implementation by us of new practices and processes designed to comply with, and benefit from, the tax act and its rules and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. we may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits, and reviews by authorities throughout the world. any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the periods for which such determination is made. while we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient. in addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated, or by the incurrence of losses, in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, as a result of gains on our foreign currency exchange risk management program; or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. various levels of government, such as u.s. federal and state legislatures, and international organizations, such as the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ) and the eu, are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative or regulatory action to increase tax revenue. various countries, most notably in the eu, have proposed or enacted digital services taxes. any such tax reform or other legislative or regulatory actions could increase our effective tax rate. 30 table of contents we and our merchants may be subject to sales reporting and record-keeping obligations. a number of u.s. states, the u.s. federal government, and foreign countries have implemented or are in the process of implementing reporting or record-keeping obligations on companies that engage in or facilitate e-commerce to improve tax compliance. additionally, a number of jurisdictions are reviewing whether payment service providers and other intermediaries could be deemed to be the legal agent of merchants for certain tax purposes. we have modified our systems to meet applicable requirements and expect that further modifications will be required to comply with future requirements, which may negatively impact our customer experience and increase operational costs. any failure by us to comply with these and similar reporting and record-keeping obligations could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, adversely impact our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions, and harm our business. acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic investments, and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties and could harm our business. acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic investments, and other strategic transactions are important elements of our overall corporate strategy. we expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions of certain businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets, as well as joint ventures, strategic investments, and commercial and strategic partnerships. these transactions may involve significant challenges, uncertainties, and risks, including: the potential loss of key customers, vendors, and other key business partners of the companies we acquire, or dispose of, following and continuing after announcement of our transaction plans; difficulty making strategic hires of new employees, declining employee morale, and retention issues affecting employees (particularly the potential loss of key personnel) of companies that we acquire or dispose of, which may result from changes in compensation, management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the acquired or disposed business; differences between our culture and values and those of our acquired companies; diversion of management time and focus; the need to and difficulty of integrating the operations, systems (including accounting, compliance, management, information, human resource, and other administrative systems), technologies, data assets, products, and personnel of each acquired company, which is an inherently risky and potentially lengthy and costly process; the need to and difficulty of implementing and/or enhancing controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies which, prior to the acquisition, may have lacked such controls, procedures, and policies or whose controls, procedures, and policies did not meet applicable legal and regulatory standards; the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if integration of acquired companies is delayed or not implemented, and unforeseen difficulties and costs that may arise as a result; potential exposure to new or increased regulatory oversight and uncertain or evolving legal, regulatory, and compliance requirements associated with new products and services or entry into new markets, including transactions with, or investments in, companies involved in new or developing businesses or industries; potential reputational risks that could arise from transactions with, or investments in, companies involved in new or developing businesses or industries, which may be subject to uncertain or evolving legal, regulatory, and compliance requirements; risks associated with our expansion into new international markets, and challenges caused by integrating operations across geographies, and different languages, cultures and political environments; unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including, but not limited to, product or service quality issues, intellectual property issues, and legal contingencies; risks associated with the complexity of entering into and effectively managing joint ventures, strategic investments, and other strategic partnerships; risks associated with undetected cyberattacks or security breaches at companies that we acquire or with which we may combine or partner; lawsuits or regulatory actions resulting from the transaction; liability for activities or conduct of an acquired company before the acquisition, including legal and regulatory claims or disputes, violations of laws and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; the need to maintain, and comply with the requirements of licenses for certain companies that we have acquired, and risks associated with any failure to maintain such licenses or comply with associated requirements; the acquisition of new customer and employee personal data, which in and of itself may require regulatory approval and/or additional controls, policies, and procedures, and subject us to additional exposure and additional complexity and costs of compliance; potential financial and credit risks associated with acquired customers, vendors, and partners; and 31 table of contents our dependence on the accounting, financial reporting, operating metrics and similar systems, controls and processes of acquired businesses, and the risk that errors or irregularities in those systems, controls, and processes will lead to errors in our financial statements or make it more difficult to manage the acquired business. at any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more strategic transactions, any of which could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to our financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, and consummating favorable transaction opportunities. it may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of these transactions, and those benefits and synergies may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. because acquisitions are inherently risky, our transactions may not be successful and may, in some cases, harm our operating results or financial condition. any acquisitions, dispositions, or investments may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), recognize liabilities, and record gains or losses (realized or unrealized) and amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill or intangibles, which could dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders and adversely affect our results of operations and the interests of holders of our indebtedness, as applicable. joint ventures and strategic investments in which we have a minority ownership stake inherently involve a lesser degree of influence over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational, and/or compliance risks associated with the joint venture or strategic investment. in addition, we may be dependent on joint venture partners, controlling shareholders, management, or other persons or entities who control them and who may have business interests, strategies, or goals that are inconsistent with ours. business decisions or other actions or omissions of the joint venture partners, controlling shareholders, management, or other persons or entities who control joint ventures or companies in which we invest may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us, and otherwise damage our reputation and brand. there are risks associated with our indebtedness. we have incurred indebtedness, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have significant consequences, including, without limitation, the following: our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations and generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt. we may be required to use a significant portion of our cash flow from operations and other available cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, acquisitions, and strategic investments; our indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures, and to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, or other general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited. our revolving credit facilities and the indenture for our senior unsecured notes pursuant to which certain of our outstanding debt securities were issued contain financial and other covenants that restrict or could restrict, among other things, our business and operations. if we fail to pay amounts due under a debt instrument or breach any of its covenants, the lenders would typically have the right to demand immediate repayment of all borrowings thereunder (subject in certain cases to a grace or cure period). moreover, any such acceleration and required repayment of, or default in respect of, our indebtedness could, in turn, constitute an event of default under other debt instruments, thereby resulting in the acceleration and required repayment of our indebtedness. any of these events could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase our borrowing costs. if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rates payable by us under our indebtedness may increase. in addition, any downgrades to our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and the terms of any such financing. any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, which creates additional risk. we rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, including the following: networks, banks, payment processors, and payment gateways that link us to the payment card and bank clearing networks to process transactions; 32 table of contents unaffiliated third-party lenders to originate the u.s. paypal credit, paypal-branded credit card, paypal working capital, and paypal business loan products; third parties that provide loan servicing and customer statements processing; third parties that provide certain outsourced customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations; and third parties that provide facilities, infrastructure, components, and services, including data center facilities and cloud computing. because we rely on third parties to provide certain of our services and to facilitate certain of our business activities, we face increased operational risk. these third parties may be subject to financial, legal, regulatory, and labor issues, cybersecurity incidents, privacy breaches, service terminations, disruptions or interruptions, or other problems, which may impose additional costs or requirements on us or prevent these third parties from providing services to us or our customers on our behalf, which could harm our business. in addition, these third parties may breach their agreements with us, disagree with our interpretation of contract terms or applicable laws and regulations, refuse to continue or renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms or at all, fail or refuse to process transactions or provide other services adequately, take actions that degrade the functionality of our services, impose additional costs or requirements on us or our customers, or give preferential treatment to competitive services. there can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to us or our customers on our behalf will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. if any third parties do not adequately or appropriately provide their services or perform their responsibilities to us or our customers on our behalf, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all, and we may be subject to business disruptions, losses or costs to remediate any of the deficiencies, customer dissatisfaction, reputational damage, legal or regulatory proceedings, or other adverse consequences which could harm our business. our point of sale solutions expose us to additional risks. we have several point of sale solutions, which enable merchants to accept payments using a payments card reader attached to, or otherwise communicating with, a mobile device or to scan payment cards and codes using the mobile device's embedded camera, and which enable consumers to use their mobile devices to pay at the point of sale. we have entered into strategic partnerships with major payment card networks to further expand our relationship in a way that will make it easier for merchants to accept and consumers to choose to pay for transactions utilizing credit and debit cards via paypal at the point of sale. those agreements provide us with access to each of these partner's tokenization services in the u.s. for in-store point-of-sale paypal transactions, which we expect will increase the number of point of sale transactions that we process. we believe that the addition of the izettle point of sale solutions to our product portfolio will enable us to further expand our in-store presence. as we continue to expand our product and service offerings at the point of sale, we will face additional risks, including: increased expectations from merchants regarding the reliability and availability of our systems and services and correspondingly lower amounts of downtime, which we may not be able to meet; increased expectations from merchants that our systems and services will help them to comply with laws and regulations relating to tax, accounting, and bookkeeping, such as cash register systems, which we may not be able to meet; significant competition at the point of sale, particularly from established payment card providers, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do, and from other competing sale channels (such as e-commerce); increased targeting by fraudsters; given that our fraud models are less developed in this area, we may experience increases in fraud and associated transaction losses as we adjust to potential fraudulent activity at the point of sale; exposure to product liability claims to the extent that hardware devices (e.g., card readers) that we produce for use at the point of sale malfunction or are not in compliance with laws, which could result in substantial liability and require product recalls or other actions; constraints in key resources to develop and maintain point of sale software and ancillary hardware; exposure to additional laws, rules, and regulations; increased reliance on third parties involved with processing in-store payments, including independent software providers, electronic point of sale providers, hardware providers (such as card reader, cash drawer, and pin-pad providers), payment processors, and banks that enable in-store transactions; and lower operating income than our other payment solutions. 33 table of contents unless we are able to successfully manage these risks, including driving adoption of, and significant volume through, our point of sale solutions over time, our business may be harmed. our success largely depends on key personnel. because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain, and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. the loss of key personnel could harm our ability to maintain and grow our business. our future success and performance are significantly dependent upon the continued services of key personnel, including our executive team and other highly skilled employees, and our ability to attract, retain, and motivate such personnel. competition for key personnel is intense, especially in the san francisco bay area, where our corporate headquarters are located and where the cost of living is high, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified key personnel. in making employment decisions, particularly in the technology and payments industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment, and our stock price volatility, or a perception that the market price of our stock may not increase or may increase more slowly than stock prices at other technology or payments companies, may make it more difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees. we may be limited in our ability to recruit or hire internationally, including due to restrictive laws or policies on immigration, travel, or availability of visas for skilled workers. in addition, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our inability to attract or retain highly qualified key personnel effectively, could harm our business and growth prospects. we are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our products and services. companies providing online services may be subject to claims relating to information disseminated through them, including claims alleging defamation, libel, harassment, hate speech, breach of contract, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through the services, among other things. the laws relating to the liability of companies providing online services for information disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges. we are also subject to potential liability to third parties for the customer-provided content on our products and services, particularly in jurisdictions outside the u.s. where the applicable laws are unsettled. if we become liable for information provided by our customers and carried on our products and services, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain product or service offerings, which could harm our business. risks related to our separation from ebay if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the internal revenue code (the code ), ebay, paypal and ebay stockholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities. on july 17, 2015, we became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by ebay inc. of 100% of our outstanding common stock to ebay's stockholders (which we sometimes refer to as the separation or the distribution ). ebay received an opinion from its outside legal counsel regarding the qualification of the distribution, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code. the opinion was based on and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements, and undertakings of ebay and of us, including those relating to the past and future conduct of ebay and of us. if any of these representations, statements, or undertakings were, or became, inaccurate or incomplete, or if ebay or we breach any of our respective covenants in the separation documents, the opinion of counsel may be invalid, and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. notwithstanding the opinion of counsel, the internal revenue service (the irs ) could determine that the distribution, together with certain related transactions, should be treated as a taxable transaction if the irs determines that any of these representations, assumptions, or undertakings upon which such opinion was based are incorrect or have been violated or if the irs disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. an opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs or any court and there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reached in the opinion. the irs did not provide any opinion in advance of the separation that our proposed transaction is tax-free. 34 table of contents if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free under sections 368(a)(1)(d) and 355 of the code, in general, ebay would recognize taxable gain as if it had sold the paypal common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, ebay stockholders who received paypal common stock in the distribution may be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares, and we could incur significant liabilities. there are risks associated with our relationship with ebay. in connection with our separation from ebay, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with ebay, as well as various other agreements, including an operating agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, an intellectual property matters agreement, a data sharing addendum, and a product development agreement. the separation agreement, the tax matters agreement, the employee matters agreement, and the intellectual property matters agreement determined the allocation of assets and liabilities (including by means of licensing) between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include associated indemnification obligations. the operating agreement, the data sharing addendum, and the product development agreement establish certain commercial relationships between ebay and us related to payment processing, credit, and data sharing. if either we or ebay are unable to satisfy our performance, payment, or indemnification obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses or be required to make substantial indemnification or other payments to ebay. disputes between ebay and us have arisen and others may arise in the future. an adverse outcome in any such matters could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. ebay and paypal are currently involved in a dispute regarding the calculation and amount of referral services fees due to ebay under the operating agreement. the parties are currently in arbitration proceedings with respect to this dispute pursuant to the dispute resolution provisions in the separation and distribution agreement. our relationship with ebay is governed, in part, by an operating agreement entered into at separation with a term of five years expiring july 2020 and a one-year tail period. this operating agreement defines a number of important elements of our commercial relationship with ebay, as well as certain obligations and restrictions that limit paypal's provision of services to certain competitive platform operators of ebay (as specified in the operating agreement). while ebay remains a significant source of our revenues and operating income, we expect the portion of our revenue and operating income attributable to ebay to continue to decline due to various factors (many of which are beyond our control), including the expiration (or earlier termination) of the operating agreement with ebay, and the speed and extent to which ebay intermediates payments on its platform (including by acting as a merchant of record and migrating ebay merchants to ebay's managed payments platform), limits the availability of paypal as a payment option or offers (or promotes) alternative payment options, directs transactions on its platforms to different providers of payment services, or eliminates or modifies its risk management or customer protection programs on its platforms, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, reduction in ebay volume, and other consequences adverse to our business. if we are unable to generate sufficient business from our non-ebay customers to offset the expected reduction in the portion of our business attributable to ebay, it could materially impact the growth in our business and our ability to meet our long-term financial targets. risks related to our common stock the price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations or lack of coverage and reports by securities analysts; changes in our capital structure; the activities of our competitors; speculation, coverage, or sentiment in the media or the investment community; the operating and stock price performance and valuation of comparable companies; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the sec; additions or departures of key personnel; announcements related to litigation, regulation, or disputes; changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which we operate; and 35 table of contents market conditions or trends in the payments industry, the industries of merchants, and the domestic and worldwide economy as a whole. as a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they purchase our common stock. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies like us. these broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. in addition, in the past, some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to class action or derivative lawsuits. the filing of a lawsuit against us, regardless of the outcome, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the state courts of the state of delaware, or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the corporation otherwise determines, the state courts of the state of delaware, or, if no state court located in the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the district of delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to us or our stockholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the delaware general corporation law ( dgcl ) or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. alternatively, if a court outside of delaware were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we could incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of deterring coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and by encouraging prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include, among others: rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the fact that directors may not be elected, removed, or replaced at stockholder-requested special meetings unless a person, entity, or group owns at least a majority of our outstanding common stock; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend, and other rights of preferred stock without stockholder approval; the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors in most circumstances and to determine the size of our board of directors; the prohibition on stockholders acting by written consent; and the absence of cumulative rights in the election of directors. we have also elected not to be governed by section 203 of the dgcl, which provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation, or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, however, contains a provision that generally mirrors section 203 of the dgcl, except that it provides for a 20% threshold instead of the 15% provided for by the dgcl. these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may favor. 36 table of contents while these provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers, they will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and may delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. these provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential for economic losses to be incurred on market risk sensitive instruments arising from adverse changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity investment risk. management establishes and oversees the implementation of policies governing our investing, funding, and foreign currency derivative activities in order to mitigate market risks. we monitor risk exposures on an ongoing basis. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk relating to our investment portfolio and from interest-rate sensitive assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our consolidated balance sheets as customer accounts. as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, approximately 63% and 78% , respectively, of our total cash, cash equivalents, and investment portfolio (excluding restricted cash and strategic investments) was held in cash and cash equivalents. the assets underlying the customer balances we hold on our consolidated balance sheets as customer accounts are maintained in interest and non-interest bearing bank deposits, time deposits, u.s. and foreign government and agency securities, and corporate debt securities. we seek to preserve principal while holding eligible liquid assets, as defined by applicable regulatory requirements and commercial law in certain jurisdictions where we operate, equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount of all customer balances. we do not pay interest on amounts due to customers. we have $5.0 billion in fixed rate debt with varying maturity dates. since these notes bear interest at fixed rates, they do not result in any financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. however, the fair value of these notes fluctuates when interest rates change. we also have various committed credit facilities available to us aggregating to approximately $6.1 billion. we are obligated to pay interest on loans under these facilities as well as other customary fees, including an upfront fee and an unused commitment fee based on our debt rating. borrowings under these facilities, if any, bear interest at floating rates. as a result, we are exposed to the risk related to fluctuations in interest rate to the extent of our borrowings. as of december 31, 2019 , we had no amounts outstanding under these credit facilities. as of december 31, 2018 , we had $2.0 billion of borrowings outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of 3.34% . for additional information, see note 12 debt in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k interest rates may also adversely impact our customers' spending levels and ability and willingness to pay outstanding amounts owed to us. higher interest rates often lead to higher payment obligations by customers of our credit products to us, or to lenders under mortgage, credit card, and other consumer and merchant loans, which may reduce our customers' ability to remain current on their obligations to us and therefore lead to increased delinquencies, charge-offs, and allowances for loans and interest receivable, which could have an adverse effect on our net income. a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would not have had a material impact on our financial assets or liabilities at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . foreign currency exchange rate risk we have significant operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the british pound, euro, australian dollar, and canadian dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency exchange rate risk, which may adversely impact our financial results. we transact business in various foreign currencies and have significant international revenues and costs. in addition, we charge our international subsidiaries for their use of intellectual property and technology and for certain corporate services. our cash flows, results of operations, and certain of our intercompany balances that are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses due to foreign currency fluctuations and related hedging activities. we are generally a net receiver of foreign currencies and therefore benefit from a weakening of the u.s. dollar, and are adversely affected by a strengthening of the u.s. dollar, relative to foreign currencies. we have a foreign currency exchange exposure management program designed to identify material foreign currency exposures, manage these exposures, and reduce the potential effects of currency fluctuations on our reported consolidated cash flows and results of operations through the execution of foreign currency exchange contracts. these foreign currency exchange contracts are accounted for as derivative instruments. for additional details related to our foreign currency exchange contracts, please see note 10 derivative instruments to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. 56 table of contents we use foreign currency exchange forward contracts to protect our forecasted u.s. dollar-equivalent earnings and our investment in a foreign subsidiary from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these hedging contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of adverse foreign currency exchange rate movements. we designate these contracts as cash flow and net investment hedges for accounting purposes. the derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ). cash flow hedges are subsequently reclassified into the financial statement line item in which the hedged item is recorded in the same period the forecasted transaction affects earnings. the accumulated gains and losses associated with the net investment hedge will remain in aoci until the foreign subsidiary is sold or substantially liquidated, at which point they will be reclassified into earnings. we considered the historical trends in foreign currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. if the u.s. dollar weakened by 20% at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , the amount recorded in aoci related to our foreign currency exchange forward contracts, before taxes, would have been approximately $900 million and $707 million lower, respectively. if the u.s. dollar strengthened by 20% at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , the amount recorded in aoci related to our foreign currency exchange forward contracts, before taxes, would have been approximately $900 million and $707 million higher, respectively. we have an additional foreign currency exchange management program whereby we use foreign currency exchange contracts to offset the foreign currency exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. these contracts are not designated as hedging instruments and reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on our assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, and are offset by the gains and losses on the foreign currency exchange contracts. adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before income taxes of approximately $147 million and $295 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, without considering the offsetting effect of hedging. foreign currency exchange contracts in place as of december 31, 2019 would have positively impacted income before income taxes by approximately $153 million , resulting in a net positive impact of approximately $6 million . foreign currency exchange contracts in place as of december 31, 2018 would have positively impacted income before income taxes by approximately $308 million , resulting in a net positive impact of approximately $13 million . these reasonably possible adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% were applied to total monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries at the balance sheet dates to compute the adverse impact these changes would have had on our income before income taxes in the near term. equity investment risk our strategic investments are subject to a variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the carrying value of the portfolio. as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , our strategic investments totaled $1.8 billion and $293 million , respectively, which represented approximately 13% and 3% of our total cash, cash equivalents, and investment portfolio at those respective dates. our strategic investments include marketable equity securities, which are publicly traded, and non-marketable equity securities, which are investments in privately held companies that are not publicly traded. we are required to record all adjustments to the carrying value of these strategic investments through our consolidated statements of income. as such, we anticipate volatility to our net income in future periods due to changes in fair value related to our investments in marketable equity securities and changes in observable prices related to our non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the measurement alternative. these changes could be material based on market conditions. a hypothetical adverse change in the carrying value of our strategic investments of 10%, which could be experienced in the near term, would result in a decrease of approximately $184 million to the carrying value of the portfolio. we review our non-marketable equity investments accounted for under the measurement alternative for impairment when events and circumstances indicate a decline in fair value of such assets below carrying value. our analysis includes a review of recent operating results and trends, recent purchases and sales of securities, and other publicly available data.