quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35risk factors 12 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects, trends and anticipated financial performance including with respect to our liquidity and capital resources, our backlog, our pension expense and funding, the impact of new accounting pronouncements, our unrecognized tax benefits and the impact and outcome of legal and administrative proceedings, claims, investigations, commitments and contingencies, as well as information regarding domestic and international defense spending and budgets. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, nor use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them. 12 table of contents we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business and changes in government defense spending could have consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. in 2011 , u.s. government sales, excluding foreign military sales, accounted for approximately 74% of our total net sales. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the department of defense (dod), as well as a broad range of programs with the department of homeland security, the intelligence community and other departments and agencies. the funding of our programs is subject to the overall u.s. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events, macroeconomic conditions, and the ability of the u.s. government to enact relevant legislation, such as accords on the debt ceiling. the overall level of u.s. defense spending steadily increased from fiscal year (fy) 2001 through fy 2010 for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in iraq and afghanistan and the dod's modernization initiatives. however, since fy 2010, funding has decreased for operations in iraq and afghanistan and has leveled for the dod base budget (excluding iraq and afghanistan funding). looking forward, defense spending levels are becoming increasingly difficult to predict and will be affected by numerous factors. notably, whether sequestration currently required under the budget control act of 2011 will take effect on january 2, 2013 and the actual impact of sequestration on the dod budget and our programs are uncertain. other factors include the external threat environment, funding for ongoing operations in iraq and afghanistan, priorities of the administration and the congress, budget deficits and national debt and the overall health of the u.s. and world economies and the state of governmental finances. due to these and other factors, domestic defense spending levels may remain level and possibly decline in inflation adjusted terms over the next several years. significant changes in defense spending could have long-term consequences for our size and structure. in addition, changes in government priorities, policies and requirements could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we are involved in u.s. government programs, principally through our iis and sas business segments, which are classified by the u.s. government and our ability to discuss these programs, including any risks and disputes and claims associated with and our performance under such programs, could be limited due to applicable security restrictions. our financial performance is dependent on our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts, which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and termination. our financial performance is dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. while we are involved in numerous programs and are party to thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more large contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be awarded new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of termination of any of our contracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. from time to time, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the u.s. government's fiscal year, congress may pass a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives, during a certain period. appropriations can also be impacted by other budgetary considerations, such as failure to increase the statutory debt ceiling of the u.s. government. during such period (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), delays can occur in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and these delays can affect our results of operations during the period of delay. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government's convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and 13 table of contents have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. our government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with performing our government contracts. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to extensive procurement rules and regulations and changes in such rules, regulations and business practice could negatively affect current programs and potential awards. government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in government contracts, impact our performance and compliance costs. in addition, current u.s. government budgetary constraints could lead to changes in the procurement environment, including the dod's initiatives focused on efficiencies, affordability and cost growth and other changes to its procurement practices such as changes in payment term preferences. if and to the extent such changes occur as a result of these initiatives or otherwise, they could impact our results of operations and liquidity, and could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. in addition, failure to comply with the procurement regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. the termination of a government contract as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. our international business is subject to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks. our international business exposes us to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic business. in 2011, our sales to customers outside the u.s. (including foreign military sales through the u.s. government) accounted for 25% of our total net sales. our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers and geo-political uncertainties, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as u.s. foreign policy. our international sales are subject to u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including the international traffic in arms regulations (itar), the foreign corrupt practices act, and other export laws and regulations. due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside of the u.s. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that certain sales will not be prevented or delayed. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our international sales are also subject to local government laws, regulations, and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as to varying currency, geo-political and economic risks. international contract laws, regulations and contractual terms differ from those of the u.s. and may be interpreted differently by foreign courts. our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support obligations, known as offset obligations, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. our international contracts may also be subject to termination at the customer's convenience or for default based on performance, and may be subject to funding risks. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. 14 table of contents as a result of these factors, we could experience award and funding delays on international programs and could incur losses on such programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate increasing competition in our core markets as a result of defense industry consolidation, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, u.s. defense spending levels in the near future are increasingly difficult to predict. changes in u.s. defense spending and the u.s. government procurement environment may potentially limit certain future market opportunities. we are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. in the current competitive environment there may be an increase in bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. generally, a bid protest will delay the start of contract activities, and could result in the award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new or adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies for our current core defense markets and our future markets, including new growth and emerging markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and future markets; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current and future markets; develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets; enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; develop and manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; and effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, collaborative agreements and other forms of alliances, to reflect the competitive environment. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new and adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. the possibility exists that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings that might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we enter into fixed-price and other contracts which could subject us to losses in the event that we experience cost growth that cannot be billed to customers. generally, our customer contracts are either fixed-priced or cost reimbursable contracts. under fixed-priced contracts, which represent approximately 60% of our backlog, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we must carry the burden of any cost overruns. due to their nature, fixed-priced contracts inherently have more risk than cost reimbursable contracts, particularly fixed-price development contracts where the costs to complete the development stage of the program can be highly variable, uncertain and difficult to estimate. under cost reimbursable contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed 15 table of contents or performance based. if our costs exceed the contract ceiling and are not authorized by the customer or are not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs and our fees may be reduced or eliminated. because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. under both types of contracts, if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, we may not realize their full benefits. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or investigatory finding by the u.s. government. as a government contractor, we are subject to audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies including the defense contract audit agency (dcaa), the defense contract management agency, the inspector general of the dod and other departments and agencies, the government accountability office, the department of justice (doj) and congressional committees. these agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. the dcaa also reviews the adequacy of and a contractor's compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. we depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we are dependent upon the delivery by suppliers of materials and the assembly by subcontractors of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we are generally subject to specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, we may not have readily available alternatives. while we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. in addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors may be impacted by the recent global financial crisis, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. 16 table of contents significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on assets (roa), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and other factors could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. we must determine our pension and other benefit plans' expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term roa and other actuarial assumptions. if our assumptions change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances, our pension and other benefit plans' expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans could negatively change which would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term roa assumption would result in a change to our pension and other benefit plans' expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. they may also be impacted by changes in regulatory, accounting and other requirements applicable to pensions. for a complete discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other benefit plan accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates on page 31 within item 7 of this form 10-k. we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments and acquisitions. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other collaborative arrangements. these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. at december 31, 2011 , we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $13.2 billion , net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 51% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen issues which adversely affect the value of our goodwill or the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets. future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 17 table of contents we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. the loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats and other security threats and disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, and threats to physical security. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. cybersecurity threats, such as computer viruses, attempts to access to information, and other security breaches, are persistent, continue to evolve and require highly skilled it resources. these types of events could disrupt our operations, require significant management attention and resources, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 5,600 of our employees are unionized, which represents approximately 8% of our employee-base at december 31, 2011. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual property for government purposes. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and prevent disclosure of our proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or third party development of similar technologies. moreover, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under u.s. law. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to past practices at a number of properties and, in some cases, have been named as a defendant in related toxic tort claims for costs of cleanup and property damages. we are also subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations that impose strict requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, restrict air and water emissions from our manufacturing operations (including government-owned facilities we manage), and require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental 18 table of contents hazardous substance releases. if we were convicted of a criminal violation of certain federal environmental statutes, including the federal clean air act and the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be placed by the environmental protection agency (epa) on the excluded parties list maintained by the government services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during any period of listing by the epa. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including missile systems, command and control systems, border security systems, and air traffic management systems. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers, either through contractual provisions, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, or otherwise. the amount of our insurance coverage we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we generally supplement our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. we may enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest and exchange rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. there were no interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010 . as of december 31, 2011 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ 575 $ 400 $ $ 3,683 $ 4,658 $ 5,121 average interest rate 1.400 % 1.625 % 4.932 % 4.21 % as of december 31, 2010 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ $ $ 400 $ 3,258 $ 3,658 $ 3,783 average interest rate 1.625 % 4.962 % 4.60 % in addition, the aggregate notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was $941 million and $1,258 million at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010 , respectively. unrealized gains of $12 million and $45 million were included in non-current assets and unrealized losses of $22 million and $41 million were included in current liabilities at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010 , respectively. for foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. 69 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects, products and services, trends and anticipated financial performance including with respect to our liquidity and capital resources, our backlog, our pension expense and funding, the impact of new accounting pronouncements, our unrecognized tax benefits and the impact and outcome of audits and legal and administrative proceedings, claims, investigations, commitments and contingencies, as well as information regarding domestic and international defense spending and budgets. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, nor use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them. we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business and changes in government defense spending could have consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. in 2012 , u.s. government sales, excluding foreign military sales, accounted for approximately 73% of our total net sales. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the department of defense (dod), as well as a broad range of programs with the intelligence community and other departments and agencies. the funding of our programs is subject to the overall u.s. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events, macroeconomic conditions, and the ability of the u.s. government to enact relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. since fiscal year (fy) 2010, funding for the dod base budget (excluding funds for overseas operations such as afghanistan) has essentially flattened and has remained at approximately $530 billion. the long-range defense plans submitted with the fy 2013 budget request indicated a decrease of approximately 1% in the dod base budget from this 13 table of contents level in fy 2013, followed by modest increases thereafter. however, defense spending levels in the future are increasingly difficult to predict due to the overall fiscal constraints of the u.s. government and the challenges of enacting relevant legislation. in particular, whether funding cuts required under the budget control act of 2011 (bca) are actually implemented or not will have a significant impact on dod funding levels in fy 2013 and beyond. currently, the cuts required by the bca, unless amended by law, would reduce funding to the dod by approximately $45 billion in fy 2013 and almost $500 billion over the fy 2013 - fy 2021 period. while the congress and the administration have until march 1, 2013 before these cuts are implemented, it is not clear whether there will be an agreement to avert, either fully or in part, these cuts. significant changes in defense spending could have long-term consequences for our business, and any such significant changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, changes in government priorities, policies and requirements could impact the amount or timing of program funding, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, we are involved in programs that are classified by the u.s. government, principally through our iis and sas business segments, which have security requirements that place limits on our ability to discuss our performance on these programs, including any risks, disputes and claims. our financial performance is dependent on our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts, which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and termination. our financial performance is dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. while we are involved in numerous programs and are party to thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more large contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be awarded new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of termination of any of our contracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the u.s. government's fiscal year, which has become more frequent in recent years, congress may pass a continuing resolution (cr) that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but typically does not authorize new spending initiatives, during this period. appropriations can also be impacted by other budgetary considerations, such as failure to increase the statutory debt ceiling of the u.s. government. during such period (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), delays can occur in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and these delays can affect our results of operations during the period of delay. currently, the u.s. government is operating under a cr through march 27, 2013. it is unclear whether the cr will be extended or final appropriations bills will be passed by that date. appropriations can also be affected by legislation that addresses larger budgetary issues of the u.s. government. examples include the bca and its sequestration provisions which will, unless amended, significantly reduce appropriations below currently forecasted levels for most federal agencies, including the dod, and legislation to raise the debt ceiling for the u.s. government. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government's convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for 14 table of contents convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. our government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with performing our government contracts. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to extensive procurement rules and regulations and changes in such rules, regulations and business practice could negatively affect current programs and potential awards. government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements including import and export, security, contract pricing and cost, contract termination and adjustment, audit and product integrity requirements. these requirements, although customary in government contracts, impact our performance and compliance costs. in addition, current u.s. government budgetary constraints could lead to changes in the procurement environment, including the dod's initiatives focused on efficiencies, affordability and cost growth and other changes to its procurement practices such as changes in payment term preferences. if and to the extent such changes occur as a result of these initiatives or otherwise, they could impact our results of operations and liquidity, and could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. in addition, failure to comply with the procurement regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, cash withholds on contract payments, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. the termination of a government contract as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. our international business is subject to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks. our international business exposes us to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic business. in 2012 , our sales to customers outside the u.s. (including foreign military sales through the u.s. government) accounted for 26% of our total net sales. our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments, geo-political uncertainties, potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties and u.s. foreign policy. our international sales are subject to u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including the international traffic in arms regulations (itar), the foreign corrupt practices act, and other export laws and regulations. due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside of the u.s. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that certain sales will not be prevented or delayed. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our international sales are also subject to local government laws, regulations, and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government regulations. these include regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. we must also manage a certain degree of exposure to the risk of currency fluctuations. international contract laws, regulations and contractual terms differ from those of the u.s. and may be interpreted differently by foreign courts. our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support obligations, known as offset obligations, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. our international 15 table of contents contracts may also be subject to termination at the customer's convenience or for default based on performance, and may be subject to funding risks. we also are exposed to risks associated with using third party foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations, and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. as a result of these factors, we could experience financial penalties, award and funding delays on international programs and could incur losses on such programs which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate increasing competition in our core markets as a result of continued defense industry consolidation, including cross-border consolidation of competition, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us. we are also facing heightened competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, current u.s. defense spending levels are likely to decline and future spending levels are increasingly difficult to predict. increased pressure to limit u.s. defense spending and changes in the u.s. government procurement environment may limit certain future market opportunities. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in the current competitive environment there may be an increase in bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. generally, a bid protest will delay the start of contract activities, and could result in the award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new or adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies for our current core defense markets and our future markets, including new growth and emerging markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify the needs of, and growth opportunities in, new and emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our current and future markets; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current and future markets; develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets; enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; develop and manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; and effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, collaborative agreements and other forms of alliances, to reflect the competitive environment. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new and adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. the possibility exists that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings that might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be 16 table of contents negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we enter into fixed-price and other contracts which could subject us to losses in the event that we experience cost growth that cannot be billed to customers. generally, our customer contracts are either fixed-priced or cost reimbursable contracts. under fixed-priced contracts, which represent approximately 60% of our backlog, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we must carry the burden of any cost overruns. due to their nature, fixed-priced contracts inherently have more risk than cost reimbursable contracts, particularly fixed-price development contracts where the costs to complete the development stage of the program can be highly variable, uncertain and difficult to estimate. under cost reimbursable contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. if our costs exceed the contract ceiling and are not authorized by the customer or are not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs and our fees may be reduced or eliminated. because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. under both types of contracts, if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, we may not realize their full benefits. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or investigatory finding by the u.s. government. as a government contractor, we are subject to audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies including the defense contract audit agency (dcaa), the defense contract management agency (dcma), the inspector general of the dod and other departments and agencies, the government accountability office, the department of justice (doj) and congressional committees. from time to time, these and other agencies investigate or conduct audits to determine whether a contractor's operations are being conducted in accordance with applicable requirements. the dcaa and dcma also review the adequacy of and a contractor's compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's accounting, purchasing, property, estimating, earned value management and material management accounting systems. our final allowable incurred costs for each year are also subject to audit and have from time to time resulted in disputes between us and the u.s. government. in addition, the doj has, from time to time, convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities by us. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. we depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we are dependent upon the delivery by suppliers of materials and the assembly by subcontractors of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we are generally subject to specific procurement requirements, including but not limited to the requirements for genuine original equipment manufacturer parts, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, we may not have readily available alternatives. while we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. in addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors, especially smaller entities, may continue to be impacted by volatile global economic conditions, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 17 table of contents we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on assets (roa), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and other factors could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. we must determine our pension and other benefit plans' expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term roa and other actuarial assumptions. if our assumptions change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances, our pension and other benefit plans' expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans could negatively change which would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term roa assumption would result in a change to our pension and other benefit plans' expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. they may also be impacted by changes in regulatory, accounting and other requirements applicable to pensions. for a complete discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other benefit plan accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates beginning on page 34 within item 7 of this form 10-k. we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments and acquisitions. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets, and the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired businesses. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other collaborative arrangements. these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. 18 table of contents goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. at december 31, 2012 , we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $13.4 billion , net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 50% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen issues which adversely affect the value of our goodwill or the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets. future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. the loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats and other security threats and disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, threats to physical security, and possible domestic terrorism events. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. we are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, which generally face similar security threats. cybersecurity threats in particular, are persistent, evolve quickly and include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, attempts to access information, denial of service and other electronic security breaches. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures and controls and we have invested in highly skilled it resources to appropriately identify threats and mitigate potential risks, but there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to mission critical systems, the unauthorized release of confidential information or corruption of data. although we have in the past and will in the future be the subject of such cybersecurity incidents, to date none had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. nonetheless, these types of events could disrupt our operations or customer and other third party it systems in which we are involved. they also could require significant management attention and resources, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 19 table of contents some of our workforce is represented by labor unions so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 5,300 of our employees are unionized, which represents approximately 8% of our employee-base at december 31, 2012 . as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed or used in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual property for government and other purposes. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and prevent disclosure of our proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or third party development of similar technologies. moreover, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under u.s. law. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to past practices at a number of properties and, in some cases, have been named as a defendant in related toxic tort claims for costs of cleanup and property damages. we are also subject to laws and regulations that: (i) impose requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; (ii) restrict air and water emissions from our manufacturing operations (including government-owned facilities we manage); and (iii) require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. if we were convicted of a criminal violation of certain federal environmental statutes, including the federal clean air act and the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be placed by the environmental protection agency (epa) on the excluded parties list maintained by the government services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during any period of listing by the epa. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up standards could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 20 table of contents we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including missile systems, command and control systems, border security systems, and air traffic management systems. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers, either through contractual provisions, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, or otherwise. the amount of our insurance coverage we maintain or indemnification to which we may be contractually or otherwise entitled may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance or indemnification coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we generally supplement our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. we may enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. there were no interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011 . as of december 31, 2012 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ 4,783 $ 4,783 $ 5,483 average interest rate % % % % % 4.372 % 4.372 % as of december 31, 2011 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ 575 $ 400 $ $ 3,683 $ 4,658 $ 5,121 average interest rate 1.400 % 1.625 % 4.932 % 4.210 % in addition, the aggregate notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was $1,305 million and $941 million at december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011 , respectively. for foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. unrealized gains of $17 million and $12 million were included in non-current assets and unrealized losses of $14 million and $22 million were included in current liabilities at december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011 , respectively. realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. at december 31, 2012, we had short-term investments with a fair value of $856 million , which are classified as available-for-sale and consist of highly rated bank certificates of deposit with a minimum long-term debt rating of a or a2 and a minimum short-term debt rating of a-1 and p-1. our exposure due to changes in interest rates is not material due to the nature and amount of our short-term investments (i.e., high-quality certificates of deposit). 76 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects, products and services, trends and anticipated financial performance including with respect to our liquidity and capital resources, our backlog, our pension expense and funding, the impact of new accounting pronouncements, our unrecognized tax benefits and the impact and outcome of audits and legal and administrative proceedings, claims, investigations, commitments and contingencies, as well as information regarding domestic and international defense spending and budgets. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the sec. given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, nor use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them. we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business and changes in government defense spending and priorities could have consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. in 2013 , u.s. government sales, excluding foreign military sales, accounted for approximately 72% of our total net sales. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the dod, as well as a broad range of programs with the intelligence community and other departments and agencies. the funding of our programs is subject to the overall u.s. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events, macroeconomic conditions, and the ability of the u.s. government to enact relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. u.s. government appropriations have and likely will continue to be affected by larger u.s. government budgetary issues and related legislation. in 2011, the congress enacted the budget control act of 2011, as amended by the american 12 table of contents taxpayer relief act of 2012 (bca) and, pursuant to the terms of the bca, a sequestration went into effect on march 1, 2013 resulting in a 7.8% reduction to the dod budget for fy 2013, excluding funding for military personnel, and a total reduction of approximately $500 billion over the fy 2013 fy 2021 period. the bipartisan budget act of 2013 amended the bca and reduced the amount of the sequestration by a total of $63 billion for fy 2014 and fy 2015. the final fy 2014 dod base budget (excluding funding for operations in afghanistan) appropriation enacted into law in january 2014 is approximately $497 billion, which is similar to the level of funding for the dod in fy 2013 after sequestration and fy 2015 is expected to be funded at a similar level. under the current terms of the bca as amended, future funding reductions would result in a total of approximately $300 billion in reduced dod funding over the fy 2016 fy 2021 period. unless congress and the administration agree to further amend or revoke the bca, the dod will be required to operate under the amended bca funding levels for the foreseeable future. in addition, the u.s. government has, on a number of occasions, been unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (september 30), which resulted in it operating under a continuing resolution (cr) for extended periods, as well as a brief partial shutdown of the u.s. government in october 2013. as a result, future u.s. government defense spending levels are difficult to predict. significant changes in defense spending, changes in u.s. government priorities, policies and requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, we are involved in programs that are classified by the u.s. government, principally through our iis and sas business segments, which have security requirements that place limits on our ability to discuss our performance on these programs, including any risks, disputes and claims. our financial results largely are dependent on our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts, which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and timing, as well as termination. our financial results largely are dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. while we are involved in numerous programs and are party to thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more of such contracts, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be awarded new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of termination of any of our contracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. the u.s. government programs in which we participate also must compete with other programs and priorities for consideration and funding during the budget and appropriations process. see the discussion above for more information on the risks relating to changes in u.s. defense spending levels and priorities. in addition, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the fiscal year, congress may pass a cr that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but typically does not authorize new spending initiatives during this period. if congress fails to enact a cr, the u.s. government may shutdown which likely would result in the closure of government offices and furlough of government workers and the lack of funds to pay its contractors for work performed. in addition, if the national debt reaches the statutory debt ceiling, the congress must enact legislation to increase the statutory debt ceiling. if congress fails to do so, then the u.s. government may default on its debts, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the global financial markets. after operating under a cr at the end of 2013, final fy 2014 appropriations bills were enacted in january 2014. the national debt is expected to reach the statutory debt ceiling in the first half of 2014 unless legislation is enacted by congress. until regular appropriation bills are passed, delays can occur in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and these delays can affect our results of operations, financial position or liquidity during the period of delay. under certain circumstances, we may continue to perform under our u.s. government contracts without funding and use our own funds in order to meet our customer's desired delivery dates or other requirements. furthermore, if appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program 13 table of contents may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the u.s. government's convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the u.s. government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. our u.s. government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with performing our u.s. government contracts. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to extensive procurement rules and regulations and changes in such rules, regulations and business practice could negatively affect current programs and potential awards. government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements including import and export, security, contract pricing and cost, contract termination and adjustment, audit and product integrity requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, impact our performance and compliance costs. in addition, current u.s. government budgetary constraints have, and may continue to lead to changes in the procurement environment. for example, the dod continues to focus on initiatives focused on efficiencies, affordability and cost growth and other changes to its procurement practices such as changes in payment term preferences. if and to the extent additional changes occur as a result of these initiatives or otherwise, they could impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, and could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. in addition, failure to comply with the procurement regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, cash withholds on contract payments, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other u.s. government contracts in the future. our international business is subject to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks. our international business exposes us to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements, increasing competition and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic business. in 2013 , our sales to customers outside the u.s. (including foreign military sales through the u.s. government) accounted for 27% of our total net sales. our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments, geo-political uncertainties, volatility in worldwide economic conditions, various regional and local economic and political factors, changes in u.s. foreign policy, and other risks and uncertainties. our international sales are subject to u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including the itar, the fcpa, and other anti-corruption and export laws and regulations. we maintain strict policies and controls to comply with such laws and 14 table of contents regulations and exercise close oversight of such compliance. however, any failure by us or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and resolutions could result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties, including fines, suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our ability to export our products. in addition, due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside of the u.s. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that certain sales will not be prevented or delayed. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our international sales are also subject to local government laws, regulations, and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government regulations. these include regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. furthermore, our international sales contracts may be subject to non-u.s. contract laws and regulations and include contractual terms that differ from those of similar contracts in the u.s. or terms that may be interpreted differently by foreign courts. these contracts may also be subject to termination at the customer's convenience or for default based on performance, and may be subject to funding risks. in addition, the timing of orders, customer negotiations, governmental approvals and notifications from our international customers can be less predictable than from our domestic customers, and this may lead to variations in international bookings and sales each year. we must also manage a certain degree of exposure to the risk of currency fluctuations. our international business faces substantial competition from both u.s. companies and foreign companies. in some instances, foreign companies may receive loans, marketing subsidies and other assistance from their governments which may not be available to u.s. government contractors. our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support obligations, known as offset obligations, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. offset obligations may, in certain countries, require the creation of a joint venture with a local company, which must control the venture. this may result in our being liable for violations of law for actions taken by these entities such as laws related to anti-corruption, import and export, or local laws which may differ from u.s. laws and requirements. such offset obligations are generally multi-year arrangements and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements, which are typically subjective. we also are exposed to risks associated with using third party foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations, and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. as a result of these factors, we could experience financial penalties, award and funding delays on international programs and could incur losses on such programs which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate increasing competition in our core markets as a result of continued defense industry consolidation, including cross-border consolidation of competition, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us. we are also facing heightened competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, increased pressure to limit u.s. defense spending and changes in the u.s. government procurement environment may limit certain future market opportunities. for example, the dod increasingly is awarding contracts through competitive bidding and relying on competitive contract award types. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, due to the current competitive environment, we continue to see an increase in bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. generally, a bid protest will delay the start of contract activities, delay earnings, and could result in the award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. 15 table of contents our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new offerings and technologies or adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies for our current core defense markets and our future markets, including new growth and emerging markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify the needs of, and growth opportunities in, new and emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our current and future markets; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current and future markets; develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets; enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; develop and manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; and effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, collaborative agreements and other forms of alliances, to reflect the competitive environment. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new offerings and technologies or to adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies or identification of and expansion into new markets. due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand or that we will be successful in newly identified markets as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. additionally, the possibility exists that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings that might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we enter into fixed-price and other contracts which could subject us to losses in the event that we experience cost growth that cannot be billed to customers. generally, our customer contracts are either fixed-priced or cost reimbursable contracts. under fixed-priced contracts, which represent approximately 60% of our backlog, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we carry the burden of any cost overruns. due to their nature, fixed-priced contracts inherently have more risk than cost reimbursable contracts, particularly fixed-price development contracts where the costs to complete the development stage of the program can be highly variable, uncertain and difficult to estimate. under cost reimbursable contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. if our costs exceed the contract ceiling and are not authorized by the customer or are not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs and our fees may be reduced or eliminated. because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. under both types of contracts, if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, we may not realize their full benefits. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 16 table of contents our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or investigatory finding by the u.s. government. as a government contractor, we are subject to audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies including the dcaa, the dcma, the inspector general of the dod and other departments and agencies, the government accountability office, the department of justice (doj) and congressional committees. from time to time, these and other agencies investigate or conduct audits to determine whether a contractor's operations are being conducted in accordance with applicable requirements. the dcaa and dcma also review the adequacy of and a contractor's compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's accounting, purchasing, property, estimating, earned value management and material management accounting systems. our final allowable incurred costs for each year are also subject to audit and have from time to time resulted in disputes between us and the u.s. government. in addition, the doj has, from time to time, convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities by us. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. we depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we are dependent upon the delivery by suppliers of materials and the assembly by subcontractors of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we also are subject to specific procurement requirements that may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize, including requirements for genuine original equipment manufacturer parts. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs or becomes insolvent, we may not have readily available alternatives. while we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions, such as accelerating supplier payments commensurate with value delivered, to ensure financial viability and the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. in addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors, especially smaller entities, may continue to be impacted by global economic conditions, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, we must comply with other procurement requirements, including restrictions on the use of certain chemicals in the european union and conducting diligence and providing disclosure regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which may impact our procurement practices and increase our costs. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used 17 table of contents different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. for a complete discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by contract accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates beginning on page 34 within item 7 of this form 10-k. significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on assets (roa), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and other actuarial factors could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. we must determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plans' expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term roa and other actuarial assumptions. if our assumptions change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances, our pension and other postretirement benefit plans' expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans could negatively change which would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term roa assumption would result in a change to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans' expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. they may also be impacted by changes in regulatory, accounting and other requirements applicable to pensions. for a complete discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other postretirement benefit plan accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates beginning on page 34 within item 7 of this form 10-k. we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments and acquisitions. we undertake to identify acquisition or investment opportunities that will complement our existing products and services or customer base, as well as expand our offerings and market reach. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets and liabilities, the performance of underlying products, capabilities or technologies and the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired businesses. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other collaborative arrangements. these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. 18 table of contents goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. at december 31, 2013 , we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $13.3 billion , net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 51% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen issues which adversely affect the value of our goodwill or intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets. future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. for a complete discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by goodwill accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates beginning on page 34 within item 7 of this form 10-k. our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats and other security threats and disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, threats to physical security, and possible domestic terrorism events. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. we are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, which generally face similar security threats. cybersecurity threats in particular, are persistent, evolve quickly and include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, attempts to access information, denial of service and other electronic security breaches. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures and controls and we have invested in highly skilled it resources to appropriately identify threats and mitigate potential risks, but there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to mission critical systems, the unauthorized release of confidential information or corruption of data. although we have in the past and will in the future be the subject of such cybersecurity incidents, to date none had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. nonetheless, these types of events could disrupt our operations or customer and other third party it systems in which we are involved. they also could require significant management attention and resources, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. the loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business. 19 table of contents some of our workforce is represented by labor unions so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 5,000 of our employees are unionized, which represents approximately 8% of our employee-base at december 31, 2013 . as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed or used in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others, including our competitors, to use such patents and intellectual property for government and other purposes. the u.s. government may challenge the sufficiency of intellectual property rights we have granted in u.s. government contracts and attempt to obtain greater rights. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and prevent disclosure of our proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or third party development of similar technologies. moreover, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under u.s. law. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to past practices at a number of properties and, in some cases, have been named as a defendant in related toxic tort claims for costs of cleanup and property damages. we are also subject to laws and regulations that: (i) impose requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; (ii) restrict air and water emissions from our operations (including u.s. government-owned facilities we manage); and (iii) require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. if we were convicted of a criminal violation of certain u.s. federal environmental statutes, including the federal clean air act and the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be placed by the epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the government services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during any period of listing by the epa. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up standards could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 20 table of contents we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including missile systems, command and control systems, border security systems, and air traffic management systems. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers, either through contractual provisions, qualification of our products and services by the dhs under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, or otherwise. the amount of our insurance coverage we maintain or indemnification to which we may be contractually or otherwise entitled may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance or indemnification coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we generally supplement our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. we may enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. there were no interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 . as of december 31, 2013 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ $ $ 591 $ 4,192 $ 4,783 $ 5,036 average interest rate 6.549 % 4.065 % 4.372 % as of december 31, 2012 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ $ $ $ 4,783 $ 4,783 $ 5,483 average interest rate 4.372 % 4.372 % in addition, the aggregate notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was $1,396 million and $1,305 million at december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 , respectively. 72 table of contents for foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. unrealized gains of $23 million and $17 million were included in non-current assets and unrealized losses of $26 million and $14 million were included in current liabilities at december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012 , respectively. realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. at december 31, 2013 , we had short-term investments with a fair value of $1,001 million , which are classified as available-for-sale and consist of highly rated bank certificates of deposit with a minimum long-term debt rating of a or a2 and a minimum short-term debt rating of a-1 and p-1. our exposure due to changes in interest rates is not material due to the nature and amount of our short-term investments (i.e., high-quality certificates of deposit). 73 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects, products and services, trends and anticipated financial performance including with respect to our liquidity and capital resources, our backlog, our pension expense and funding, the impact of new accounting pronouncements, our unrecognized tax benefits and the impact and outcome of audits and legal and administrative proceedings, claims, investigations, commitments and contingencies, as well as information regarding domestic and international defense spending and budgets. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the sec. given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, or use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them. we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business, and changes in government defense spending and priorities could have consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. in 2014 , u.s. government sales, excluding foreign military sales, accounted for approximately 70% of our total net sales. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the dod, as well as a broad range of programs with the intelligence community and other departments and agencies. the funding of our programs is subject to the overall u.s. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events, macroeconomic conditions, and the ability of the u.s. government to enact relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. u.s. government appropriations have and likely will continue to be affected by larger u.s. government budgetary issues and related legislation. in 2011, the congress enacted the budget control act of 2011, as amended by the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 (bca), and the bipartisan budget act of 2013. pursuant to the terms of the bca, a sequestration went into effect on march 1, 2013 resulting in a 7.8% reduction to the dod budget for fiscal year (fy) 2013 to $495.5 billion, excluding funding for military personnel. the fy 2014 dod base budget was essentially flat at $496 billion and fy 2015 remains at a similar level. unless congress and the administration agree to further amend or revoke the bca, the dod base budget is expected to increase very modestly to approximately $500 billion for fy 2016. in the years beyond fy 2016, the bca permits annual increases for dod base budget funding of about 2.4 percent with such caps remaining in effect through fy 2023. the administration has publicly signaled its intent to submit budget requests that are significantly higher than the bca caps, as it did in submitting the fy 2016 budget request and the associated fy 2016 fydp on february 2, 2015 with all years exceeding the caps under the bca. such levels of dod budget funding would require the congress to enact legislation to raise the bca caps. in the event that dod appropriations exceed the bca caps in any fiscal year through fy 2023, an across-the-board sequestration would go into effect, as occurred in fy 2013. conversely, the congress could choose to reduce any above-bca cap budget request, as it did for fy 2014 appropriations. 12 table of contents in addition, the u.s. government has, on a number of occasions, been unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (september 30), which resulted in it operating under a continuing resolution (cr) for extended periods, as well as a brief partial shutdown of the u.s. government in october 2013. as a result, future u.s. government defense spending levels are difficult to predict. significant changes in defense spending or changes in u.s. government priorities, policies and requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, we are involved in programs that are classified by the u.s. government, principally through our iis and sas business segments, which have security requirements that place limits on our ability to discuss our performance on these programs, including any risks, disputes and claims. our financial results largely are dependent on our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts, which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and timing, as well as termination. our financial results largely are dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. while we are involved in numerous programs and are party to thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more of such contracts, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be awarded new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of termination of any of our contracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. the u.s. government programs in which we participate also must compete with other programs and priorities for consideration and funding during the budget and appropriations process. see the discussion above for more information on the risks relating to changes in u.s. defense spending levels and priorities. in addition, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the fiscal year, congress may pass a cr that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but typically does not authorize new spending initiatives during this period. if congress fails to enact a cr, the u.s. government may shut down, which likely would result in the closure of government offices and furlough of government workers and the lack of funds to pay its contractors for work performed. in addition, if the national debt reaches the statutory debt ceiling, which is currently expected to occur in the first half of 2015, the congress must enact legislation to increase the statutory debt ceiling. if congress fails to do so, then the u.s. government may default on its debts, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the global financial markets. until regular appropriation bills are passed, delays can occur in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and these delays can affect our results of operations, financial position or liquidity during the period of delay. under certain circumstances, we may continue to perform under our u.s. government contracts without funding and use our own funds in order to meet our customer's desired delivery dates or other requirements. furthermore, if appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the u.s. government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the u.s. government's convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the u.s. government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. our u.s. government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or 13 table of contents unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with performing our u.s. government contracts. additionally, in order to win certain u.s. government contracts, we may be required to invest in development prior to award as our customers demand more mature and proven solutions. these additional investment amounts may not be recouped if we are not chosen for new contract awards. our international business is subject to geopolitical and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks. our international business exposes us to geopolitical and economic factors, regulatory requirements, increasing competition and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic business. in 2014, our sales to customers outside the u.s. (including foreign military sales through the u.s. government) accounted for 29% of our total net sales. our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments, geopolitical uncertainties, volatility in worldwide economic conditions, and various regional and local economic and political factors, including volatility in energy prices, changes in u.s. foreign policy, and other risks and uncertainties. our international sales are subject to u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including the itar, the fcpa, and other anti-corruption and export laws and regulations. we maintain policies and controls to comply with such laws and regulations and exercise oversight of such compliance. however, any failure by us or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and resolutions could result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties, including fines, suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our ability to export our products. in addition, due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside of the u.s. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that certain sales will not be prevented or delayed. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our international sales are also subject to local government laws, regulations, and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government regulations. these include regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. furthermore, our international sales contracts may be subject to non-u.s. contract laws and regulations and include contractual terms that differ from those of similar contracts in the u.s. or terms that may be interpreted differently by foreign courts. these contracts may also be subject to termination at the customer's convenience or for default based on performance, and may be subject to funding risks. in addition, the timing of orders, customer negotiations, governmental approvals and notifications from our international customers can be less predictable than from our domestic customers, and this may lead to variations in international bookings and sales each year. we must also manage a certain degree of exposure to the risk of currency fluctuations. our international business faces substantial competition from both u.s. companies and foreign companies. in some instances, foreign companies may receive loans, marketing subsidies and other assistance from their governments which may not be available to u.s. government contractors. in addition, foreign companies may be subject to fewer restrictions on technology transfer than u.s. government contractors. our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support obligations, known as offset obligations, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. approvals of offset thresholds and requirements may be subjective, time consuming and may delay contract awards, and may, in certain countries, require the creation of a joint venture with a local company, which may control the venture. this may result in our being liable for violations of law for actions taken by these entities such as laws related to anti-corruption, import and export, or local laws which may differ from u.s. laws and requirements. such offset obligations are generally multi-year arrangements and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements. we also are exposed to risks associated with using third-party foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations, and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. as a result of these factors, we could experience financial 14 table of contents penalties, award and funding delays on international programs and could incur losses on such programs which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to extensive procurement rules and regulations, and changes in such rules, regulations and business practice could negatively affect current programs and potential awards. government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements including import and export, security, contract pricing and cost, contract termination and adjustment, audit and product integrity requirements. these requirements, although customary in u.s. government contracts, impact our performance and compliance costs. in addition, current u.s. government budgetary constraints have and may continue to lead to changes in the procurement environment. for example, the dod continues initiatives focused on efficiencies, affordability and cost growth and other changes to its procurement practices such as changes in payment term preferences. if and to the extent additional changes occur as a result of these initiatives or otherwise, they could impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, and could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. in addition, failure to comply with the procurement regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, cash withholds on contract payments, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. the termination of a u.s. government contract as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other u.s. government contracts in the future. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new offerings and technologies or adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies for our current core defense markets and our future markets, including new international, civil, commercial, growth and emerging markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: - identify the needs of, and growth opportunities in, new and emerging markets; - identify emerging technological and other trends in our current and future markets; - identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current and future markets; - develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets; - enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; - develop, manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; - enhance product designs for export and releasability to international markets; and - effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, collaborative agreements and other forms of alliances, to reflect the competitive environment. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new offerings and technologies or to adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. we believe this is true to meet demands and expand within both our domestic and international markets. these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies or identification of and expansion into new markets. due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand or that we will be successful in newly identified markets as we currently anticipate or that the acquisitions, joint ventures or other 15 table of contents teaming arrangements we may enter into in pursuit of developing new offerings and technologies will be successful. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. additionally, the possibility exists that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings that might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate increasing competition in our core markets as a result of continued defense industry consolidation, including cross-border consolidation of competition, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us. we are also facing heightened competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, increased pressure to limit u.s. defense spending and changes in the u.s. government procurement environment may limit certain future market opportunities. for example, the dod increasingly is committed to awarding contracts through competitive bidding and relying on competitive contract award types. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, due to the current competitive environment, we continue to see an increase in bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. generally, a bid protest will delay the start of contract activities, delay earnings, and could result in the award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. we enter into fixed-price and other contracts which could subject us to losses in the event that we experience cost growth that cannot be billed to customers. generally, our customer contracts are either fixed-priced or cost reimbursable contracts. under fixed-priced contracts, which represent approximately 60% of our backlog, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we carry the burden of any cost overruns. due to their nature, fixed-priced contracts inherently have more risk than cost reimbursable contracts, particularly fixed-price development contracts where the costs to complete the development stage of the program can be highly variable, uncertain and difficult to estimate. under cost reimbursable contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. if our costs exceed the contract ceiling and are not authorized by the customer or are not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs and our fees may be reduced or eliminated. because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. under both types of contracts, if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, we may not realize their full benefits. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or investigatory finding by the u.s. government. as a government contractor, we are subject to audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies including the dcaa, the dcma, the inspector general of the dod and other departments and agencies, the government accountability office, the department of justice (doj) and congressional committees. from time to time, these and other agencies investigate or conduct audits to determine whether a contractor's operations are being conducted in accordance with applicable requirements. the dcaa and dcma also review the adequacy of and a contractor's compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's accounting, purchasing, property, estimating, earned value management and material management accounting systems. our final allowable incurred costs for each year are also 16 table of contents subject to audit and have from time to time resulted in disputes between us and the u.s. government. in addition, the doj has, from time to time, convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities by us. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. we depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we are dependent upon the delivery by suppliers of materials and the assembly by subcontractors of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we also are subject to specific procurement requirements that may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize, including requirements for genuine original equipment manufacturer parts. as we continue to seek further cost efficiencies throughout the enterprise, we may centralize procurements in order to attain better pricing through strategic sourcing. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs or becomes insolvent, we may not have readily available alternatives or alternatives at prices that meet the demands of our customers. while we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions, such as accelerating supplier payments commensurate with value delivered, to ensure financial viability and the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. in addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors, especially smaller entities, may continue to be impacted by global economic conditions, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, we must comply with other procurement requirements, including restrictions on the use of certain chemicals in the european union and conducting diligence and providing disclosure regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which may impact our procurement practices and increase our costs. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer-directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. for a complete discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by contract accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates beginning on page 34 within item 7 of this form 10-k. 17 table of contents significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on assets (roa), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets and other actuarial factors, could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. we must determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plans' expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term roa and other actuarial assumptions. if our assumptions change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances, our pension and other postretirement benefit plans' expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans, could negatively change which would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term roa assumption would result in a change to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans' expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. they may also be impacted by changes in regulatory, accounting and other requirements applicable to pensions. for a complete discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other postretirement benefit plan accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates beginning on page 34 within item 7 of this form 10-k. we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments and acquisitions. we undertake to identify acquisition or investment opportunities that will complement our existing products and services or customer base, as well as expand our offerings and market reach into new areas that naturally extend from our core capabilities. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the risks involved with entering new markets, the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets and liabilities, the performance of underlying products, capabilities or technologies and the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired businesses. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other collaborative arrangements. these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, difficulties in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets, and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. at december 31, 2014 , we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $13.7 billion , net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 49% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen issues which adversely affect the value of our goodwill or intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets. future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 18 table of contents for a complete discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by goodwill accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates beginning on page 34 within item 7 of this form 10-k. our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats and other security threats and disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, threats to physical security, and possible domestic terrorism events. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. we are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, which generally face similar security threats. cybersecurity threats in particular are persistent, evolve quickly and include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, attempts to access information, denial of service and other electronic security breaches. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures and controls and we have invested in highly skilled it resources to appropriately identify threats and mitigate potential risks, but there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to mission critical systems, the unauthorized release of confidential information or corruption of data. although we have in the past and will in the future be the subject of such cybersecurity incidents, to date none have had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. nonetheless, these types of events could disrupt our operations or customer and other third-party it systems in which we are involved. they also could require significant management attention and resources, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we are the defendant in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. the loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 5,000 of our employees are unionized, which represents approximately 8% of our employee base at december 31, 2014 . as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual 19 table of contents property that are developed or used in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others, including our competitors, to use such patents and intellectual property for government and other purposes. the u.s. government may challenge the sufficiency of intellectual property rights we have granted in u.s. government contracts and attempt to obtain greater rights. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or third-party development of similar technologies. moreover, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under u.s. law. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damage that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to past practices at a number of properties and, in some cases, have been named as a defendant in related toxic tort claims. we are also subject to laws and regulations that: (i) impose requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; (ii) restrict air and water emissions from our operations (including u.s. government-owned facilities we manage); and (iii) require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions, decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases and/or reduce the risks of injury to people in our workplaces. if we were to be convicted of a criminal violation of certain u.s. federal environmental statutes, including the federal clean air act and the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be placed by the epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the government services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during any period of listing by the epa. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up standards could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including but not limited to missile systems, command and control systems, border security systems, and air traffic management systems. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers through contractual provisions, and obtain limitations of liability and additional defenses from the qualification of our products and services by the dhs under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, or otherwise. the amount of the insurance coverage we maintain or indemnification to which we may be contractually or otherwise entitled may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance or indemnification coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 20 table of contents unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we generally supplement our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. we may enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. there were no interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 . as of december 31, 2014 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ $ 591 $ $ 4,792 $ 5,383 $ 5,936 average interest rate 6.549 % 4.017 % 4.295 % as of december 31, 2013 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ $ $ 591 $ 4,192 $ 4,783 $ 5,036 average interest rate 6.549 % 4.065 % 4.372 % in addition, the aggregate notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was $926 million and $1,396 million at december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 , respectively. the net exposure of these contracts was approximately $57 million and $78 million at december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 , respectively. for foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. unrealized gains of $7 million and $23 million were included in non-current assets and unrealized losses of $24 million and $26 million were included in current liabilities at december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013 , respectively. realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. at december 31, 2014 , we had short-term investments with a fair value of $1,497 million , which are classified as available-for-sale and consist of highly rated bank certificates of deposit with a minimum long-term debt rating of a or a2 and a minimum short-term debt rating of a-1 and p-1. our exposure due to changes in interest rates is not material due to the nature and amount of our short-term investments (i.e., high-quality certificates of deposit which had an average maturity of approximately 5 months). 74 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects, products and services, trends and anticipated financial performance including with respect to our liquidity and capital resources; our bookings and backlog; our pension expense and funding, including our fas/cas pension adjustments for 2016 and future years and other pension contributions; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; our expected tax payments for 2016; our unrecognized tax benefits; the impact and outcome of audits and legal and administrative proceedings, claims, investigations, commitments and contingencies; the impact of acquisitions; and the impact of changes in fair value of our reporting units; as well as information regarding domestic and international defense spending, budgets and business practices. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the sec. given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, or use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them. 13 table of contents we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business, and changes in government defense spending and priorities could have consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. in 2015 , u.s. government sales, excluding foreign military sales, accounted for approximately 68% of our total net sales. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the u.s. department of defense (dod), as well as a broad range of programs with the u.s. intelligence community and other departments and agencies. the funding of our programs is subject to the overall u.s. government policies, budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events, macroeconomic conditions, and the ability of the u.s. government to enact relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. in recent years, u.s. government appropriations have been affected by larger u.s. government budgetary issues and related legislation. in 2011, congress enacted the budget control act of 2011 (bca), which established specific limits on annual appropriations for fiscal years (fy) 2012 2021. pursuant to the bca, which was amended by the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, the bipartisan budget act of 2013 and the bipartisan budget act of 2015 (bba), the fy 2013 dod budget was reduced by 7.8% as compared to fy 2012, and the dod budget remained essentially flat for fy 2014 and 2015. while the bba provides for stability and modest growth to the dod budget through fy 2017, future spending levels are uncertain. in addition, in recent years the u.s. government has been unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, resulting in both a governmental shut-down and continuing resolutions to extend sufficient funds only for u.s. government agencies to continue operating. additionally, while the bba eliminates the debt ceiling through fy 2017, the national debt has recently threatened to reach the statutory debt ceiling, and such an event in future years could result in the u.s. government defaulting on its debts. as a result, defense spending levels are difficult to predict beyond the near-term due to numerous factors, including the external threat environment, future governmental priorities and the state of governmental finances. significant changes in defense spending or changes in u.s. government priorities, policies and requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our financial results largely are dependent on our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts, which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and timing, as well as termination. our financial results could also be affected by development delays, cost overruns or product failures in connection with these contracts. our financial results largely are dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. while we are involved in numerous programs and are party to thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more of such contracts, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be awarded new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of termination of any of our contracts. u.s. government contracts generally permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the u.s. government's convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the u.s. government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations, which are made on a fiscal year basis even for multi-year programs. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and may not continue to be funded in future years. in addition, regular appropriation bills may be delayed, which may result in revenue collection delays or delays in our contract performance due to lack of funds to procure related products and services. under certain circumstances, we may use our own funds to meet our customer's desired delivery dates or other requirements. furthermore, if appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, the u.s. government may terminate our contract or subcontract under such program. 14 table of contents our u.s. government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with performing our u.s. government contracts. additionally, in order to win certain u.s. government contracts, we may be required to invest in development prior to award as our customers demand more mature and proven solutions. these additional investment amounts may not be recouped if we are not chosen for new contract awards. our u.s. government contracts are typically either fixed-priced contracts or cost reimbursable contracts. fixed-price contracts represent approximately 65% of our backlog, and are either firm fixed-price (ffp) contracts or fixed-price incentive (fpi) contracts. under ffp contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and we therefore carry the burden of any cost overruns. under fpi contracts, we carry the burden of cost overruns in excess of a negotiated cost ceiling, and share with the u.s. government any costs incurred in excess of a negotiated cost target up to the cost ceiling amount. under cost reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fixed or performance-based fee, but generally are not reimbursed for costs not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations or unauthorized costs above any cost ceiling amount. due to the nature of our work under many of our u.s. government contracts discussed above, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, our profitability could be negatively affected, particularly under fixed-price development contracts. some of our u.s. government contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, we may not realize their full benefits. our contracts also require us to comply with extensive and evolving procurement rules and regulations, which are discussed in more detail below. in addition, we are involved in programs that are classified by the u.s. government, principally through our iis and sas business segments, which have security requirements that place limits on our ability to discuss our performance on these programs, including any risks, disputes and claims. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new offerings and technologies or adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies for our current core defense markets and our future markets, including new international, civil, commercial, growth and emerging markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: - identify the needs of, and growth opportunities in, new and emerging markets; - identify emerging technological and other trends in our current and future markets; - identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current and future markets; - develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets; - enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; - develop, manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; - enhance product designs for export and releasability to international markets; and - effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, collaborative agreements and other forms of alliances, to reflect the competitive environment. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new offerings and technologies or to adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through customer funded and internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. we believe this is true to meet demands and expand within both our domestic and international markets. these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies or identification of and expansion into new markets. due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand or that we will be successful in newly identified markets as we currently anticipate or that the acquisitions, joint ventures or other teaming arrangements we may enter into in pursuit of developing new offerings and technologies will be successful. the failure of our technology 15 table of contents to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. additionally, the possibility exists that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings that might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share and limit our future market opportunities. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate increased competition in our core markets as a result of continued defense industry consolidation, including cross-border consolidation of competition, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position against us. we are also facing heightened competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, increased pressure to limit u.s. defense spending and changes in the u.s. government procurement environment may limit certain future market opportunities for us. for example, the dod increasingly is committed to awarding contracts through competitive bidding and relying on competitive contract award types. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors in our core markets, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, due to the current competitive environment, we continue to see an increase in bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. generally, a bid protest will delay the start of contract activities, delay earnings, and could result in the award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. in addition, we formed forcepoint in may 2015, our cybersecurity joint venture discussed in more detail below, to accelerate our growth in the commercial cybersecurity market. however, there can be no assurance that forcepoint will meet our expectations. additionally, the commercial cybersecurity market is characterized by rapid changes in technology, products, customer specifications and industry standards, and forcepoint may not be able to successfully and timely develop new products and services or adapt its current offerings to such changes in order to compete effectively. in addition, forcepoint's revenues are dependent on third-party sales channels as well as its internal sales force, and there can be no assurance that these sales efforts will be successful. if forcepoint is unable to compete successfully in the commercial cybersecurity market, it may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our other operations. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to extensive procurement rules and regulations. changes in such rules, regulations and business practice could negatively affect current programs and potential awards, and our business could be negatively affected if we fail to comply with any procurement rules and regulations. u.s. government contractors must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements including export-import control, security, contract pricing and cost, contract termination and adjustment, audit and product integrity requirements. these requirements impact our performance and compliance costs. in addition, the u.s. government has and may continue to implement initiatives focused on efficiencies, affordability and cost growth and other changes to its procurement practices which may negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, and could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. for example, in april 2015 the dod initiated better buying power 3.0 (bbp), which reiterates the dod's previously-announced preferences with respect to contractual payment and cost reimbursement terms, and contractor independent research and development efforts. bbp maintains a preference for incentive-based contracts that set cost and profit targets and require contractors to share cost overruns and underruns with the u.s. government. bbp also indicates a preference for progress payments, which are usually lower than performance-based payments and would thus affect the timing of our cash flows. in addition, failure to comply with the procurement regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, cash withholds on contract payments, forfeiture of profits, and the assessment of civil and criminal penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, 16 table of contents from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. the penalties or sanctions resulting from any failure to comply with applicable requirements, including contract termination, could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other u.s. government contracts in the future. issues with component availability, subcontractor performance or key supplier performance may affect our ability to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we are dependent upon the delivery by suppliers of materials and the assembly by subcontractors of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we also are subject to specific procurement requirements that limit the types of materials we use and may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. these procurement requirements include restrictions on the use of certain chemicals in the european union and requirements for genuine original equipment manufacturer parts. as we continue to seek further cost efficiencies throughout the enterprise, we may centralize procurements in order to attain better pricing through strategic sourcing, which may increase our dependency on certain suppliers. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if certain component materials are not available or if any of these suppliers or subcontractors otherwise fails to meet our needs or becomes insolvent, we may not have readily available alternatives or alternatives at prices that meet the demands of our customers. while we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions, such as accelerating supplier payments commensurate with value delivered, to ensure financial viability and the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. in addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors, especially smaller entities, may be susceptible to changes in global economic conditions that could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted, which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, we must conduct diligence and provide disclosure regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which may impact our procurement practices and increase our costs. our international business is subject to geopolitical and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks. our international business exposes us to geopolitical and economic factors, regulatory requirements, increasing competition and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic business. in 2015 , our sales to customers outside the u.s. (including foreign military sales through the u.s. government) accounted for 31% of our total net sales. our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments, geopolitical uncertainties, volatility in worldwide economic conditions, and various regional and local economic and political factors, including volatility in energy prices, changes in u.s. foreign policy, and other risks and uncertainties. our international sales are subject to u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including the international traffic in arms regulations (itar), the export administration regulations (ear), the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), and other anti-corruption and export laws and regulations. we maintain policies and controls to comply with such laws and regulations and exercise oversight of such compliance. however, any failure by us or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and resolutions could result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties, including fines, suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our ability to export our products. in addition, due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside of the u.s. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining or maintaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that certain sales will not be prevented or delayed. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 17 table of contents our international sales are also subject to local government laws, regulations, and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government regulations. these include regulations relating to export-import control, technology transfer, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. furthermore, our international sales contracts may be subject to non-u.s. contract laws and regulations and include contractual terms that differ from those of similar contracts in the u.s. or terms that may be interpreted differently by foreign courts. these contracts may also be subject to termination at the customer's convenience or for default based on performance, and may be subject to funding risks. in addition, the timing of orders, customer negotiations, governmental approvals and notifications from our international customers can be less predictable than from our domestic customers, and this may lead to variations in international bookings and sales each year. we must also manage a certain degree of exposure to the risk of currency fluctuations. our international business faces substantial competition from both u.s. companies and foreign companies. in some instances, foreign companies may receive loans, marketing subsidies and other assistance from their governments that may not be available to u.s. companies. in addition, foreign companies may be subject to fewer restrictions on technology transfer than u.s. companies. our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific local purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support obligations, known as offset obligations, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. approvals of offset thresholds and requirements may be subjective and time-consuming and may delay contract awards, and may, in certain countries, require the creation of a joint venture with a local company, which may control the venture. this could result in liability for violations of law for actions taken by these entities, such as laws related to anti-corruption, import and export, or local laws which may differ from u.s. laws and requirements. such offset obligations are generally multi-year arrangements and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements. we also are exposed to risks associated with using third-party foreign representatives and consultants for international sales, and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. as a result of these factors, we could experience financial penalties and award and funding delays on international programs, and could incur losses on such programs which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our business could be negatively impacted by cyber attacks and other security breaches and other disruptions. as part of our business, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary, sensitive or classified information, threats to physical security, including our facilities and personnel, and threats from terrorism or similar acts. we also face the potential for business disruptions associated with natural disasters. cybersecurity threats in particular are persistent, evolve quickly and include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. we have in the past and will in the future continue to be the subject of cybersecurity threats. in addition, our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties with whom we do business generally face similar security threats, and in some cases we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these parties to protect against security threats. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures and controls and have invested in significant resources to appropriately identify and monitor these threats and mitigate potential risks, including risks involving our customers and suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that any such actions will be sufficient to prevent cybersecurity breaches, disruptions to mission critical systems, the unauthorized release of sensitive information or corruption of data, or harm to facilities or personnel. in addition, as a provider of products and services to government and commercial customers, including through forcepoint, our products and services may be the targets of cyber attacks that attempt to sabotage or otherwise disable them, or our cybersecurity and other products and services ultimately may not be able to effectively detect, prevent, or protect against or otherwise mitigate losses from all cyber attacks. the impact of these security threats and other disruptions, including cyber attacks and other security breaches, is difficult to predict. furthermore, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all related costs. these threats and other events could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties, could require significant management attention and resources, could result in the loss of business, regulatory actions and potential liability, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, any one of which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 18 table of contents we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. competition for personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. furthermore, a significant percentage of our current workforce is nearing retirement. to the extent that we lose experienced personnel, it is critical that we develop other employees, hire new qualified personnel, and successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge. the loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or investigatory finding by the u.s. government. as a government contractor, we are subject to audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies including the defense contract audit agency (dcaa), the defense contract management agency (dcma), the inspectors general of the dod and other departments and agencies, the government accountability office, the department of justice (doj) and congressional committees. from time to time, these and other agencies investigate or conduct audits to determine whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with applicable requirements. the dcaa and dcma also review the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies, including our accounting, purchasing, property, estimating, earned value management and material management accounting systems. our final allowable incurred costs for each year are subject to audit and have from time to time resulted in disputes between us and the u.s. government. the doj has, from time to time, convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities in our costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer-directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, management's judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete a contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of management's judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by contract accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on plan assets (roa), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets and other actuarial factors, could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. we must determine our pension and other postretirement benefit (prb) plans' expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term roa and other actuarial assumptions. if our assumptions change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances, our pension and prb plans' expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans, could negatively change which would 19 table of contents negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term roa assumption would result in a change to our pension and prb plans' expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. they may also be impacted by changes in regulatory, accounting and other requirements applicable to pensions. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by pension and prb plan accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. if we fail to manage our acquisitions, investments, divestitures, joint ventures and other transactions successfully, these activities could adversely affect our future financial results. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and joint venture, teaming and other collaborative arrangements. we undertake to identify opportunities that will complement our existing products and services or customer base, as well as expand our offerings and market reach into new areas that naturally extend from our core capabilities. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. furthermore, these transactions involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the risks involved with entering new markets, the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and managing or monitoring other collaborative business arrangements, challenges and failures in achieving strategic objectives and other expected benefits which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, unidentified issues not discovered in raytheon's due diligence, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets, the performance of underlying products, capabilities or technologies, and the potential loss of key employees and customers of acquired businesses. in may 2015, we created raytheon|websense, a new cybersecurity joint venture company (with vista equity partners), through a series of transactions by which we acquired websense, inc. (websense) from vista equity partners and combined it with raytheon cyber products (rcp), formerly part of our intelligence, information and services (iis) segment, and then sold a minority interest in the combined company to vista equity partners. raytheon|websense was later renamed forcepoint. forcepoint offers products and services worldwide to enterprise customers, small- and medium-sized businesses, public sector entities and internet service providers primarily through a network of distributors and value-added resellers. raytheon owns 80.3% of the joint venture and vista equity partners owns 19.7%. the joint venture agreement provides vista equity partners with certain rights to exit the joint venture, including the right to require raytheon to purchase all of vista equity partners' interest in forcepoint and the right to require forcepoint to pursue an initial public offering, as well as certain other rights with respect to the management of forcepoint's business. therefore, in addition to the other risks described above, the exercise of any such rights by vista equity partners could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, or the management of our business as a whole. for a more detailed discussion regarding forcepoint, see forcepoint beginning on page 6 within item 1 of this form 10-k. goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets, and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. at december 31, 2015 , we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $15.7 billion , net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 54% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill and intangible assets based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen events that could adversely affect the value of our goodwill or intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets. future determinations of significant impairments of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by goodwill accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. 20 table of contents the outcome of litigation in which we have been named, or may in the future be named, as a defendant is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we are the defendant in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. in addition, we may be subject to future litigation matters, claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 4,000 of our employees are unionized, which represents approximately 7% of our employee base at december 31, 2015 . as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed or used in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others (including our competitors) to use such patents and intellectual property for government and other purposes. the u.s. government may challenge the sufficiency of intellectual property rights we have granted in u.s. government contracts and attempt to obtain greater rights. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or third-party development of similar technologies. moreover, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under u.s. law. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damage that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to past practices at a number of properties and, in some cases, have in the past been named as a defendant in related toxic tort claims. we are also subject to laws and regulations that: (i) impose requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; (ii) restrict air and water emissions from our operations (including u.s. government-owned facilities we manage); and (iii) require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can lead to substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions, decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases and/or reduce the risks of injury to people in our workplaces. if we were to be convicted of a criminal violation of certain u.s. federal environmental statutes, including the federal clean air act and the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be placed by the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) on the excluded parties list maintained by the government services administration. the listing 21 table of contents would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during any period of listing by the epa. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up standards could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including but not limited to missile systems, command and control systems, border security systems, air traffic management systems, and cybersecurity products and services. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers through contractual provisions, and obtain limitations of liability and additional defenses from the qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security (dhs) under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, or otherwise. the amount of the insurance coverage we maintain or indemnification to which we may be contractually or otherwise entitled may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we generally supplement our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. we may enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. there were no interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 . principal payments and interest rate detail for long-term debt by contractual maturity dates as of december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , respectively, were as follows: (in millions, except percentages) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ 591 $ $ 1,500 $ 3,292 $ 5,383 $ 5,826 average interest rate 6.549 % 3.550 % 4.229 % 4.295 % (in millions, except percentages) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ $ 591 $ $ 4,792 $ 5,383 $ 5,936 average interest rate 6.549 % 4.017 % 4.295 % in addition, the aggregate notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was $1,076 million and $926 million at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , respectively. the net notional exposure of these contracts was approximately $117 million and $57 million at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , respectively. for foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the 72 table of contents gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss (aocl), net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. unrealized gains of $9 million and $7 million were included in non-current assets and unrealized losses of $29 million and $24 million were included in current liabilities at december 31, 2015 and december 31, 2014 , respectively. realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. at december 31, 2015 , we had short-term investments with a fair value of $872 million , which are classified as available-for-sale and consist of highly rated bank certificates of deposit with a minimum long-term debt rating of a or a2 and a minimum short-term debt rating of a-1 and p-1 . our exposure due to changes in interest rates is not material due to the nature and amount of our short-term investments (i.e., high-quality certificates of deposit which had an average maturity of approximately five months ). 73 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors of this form 10-k. u.s. government contracts include both cost reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. cost reimbursement contracts, subject to a contractual cost-ceiling amount in certain cases, provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. these contracts fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed fee contracts which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive fee contracts which provide for increases or decreases in the target incentive fee, within specified limits, based upon actual cost results compared to contractual cost targets; and (iii) cost-plus award fee contracts which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the contractor against pre-established criteria. under cost reimbursement contracts, the contractor is reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and is paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some costs incidental to performing contracts have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute, the far or other regulation. examples of such costs include charitable contributions, certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs. we also classify time-and-materials (t&amp;m) contracts as cost reimbursement contracts as they are typically used to cover certain contract costs plus a set amount of fee. fixed-price contracts are predominantly either firm fixed-price (ffp) contracts or fixed-price incentive (fpi) contracts. under ffp contracts, the contractor agrees to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and as a result, benefits from cost savings and carries the burden of cost overruns. under fpi contracts, the contractor shares with the u.s. government savings accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs and costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost) and carries the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such contracts, the contractor's profit may also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified 7 table of contents cost objectives are met. under ffp and fpi type contracts, the contractor usually receives either performance-based payments (pbps) equaling up to 90% of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government generally in amounts equaling 80% of costs incurred under u.s. government contracts. the remaining amount, including profits or incentive fees, is billed upon delivery and acceptance of end items under the contract. the dod has expressed a preference to utilize fpi as opposed to ffp contracts. in the event we experience a greater proportion of fpi contracts and/or progress payments for our fixed-price dod contracts in the future than historically, it could have an adverse effect on our operating margins, cash flow and liquidity. for a discussion of certain risks associated with fixed-price and cost reimbursement contracts and risks associated with changes in u.s. government procurement rules, regulations and business practices, see item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. u.s. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the u.s. government's convenience or for default based on performance. if a contract is terminated for convenience, the contractor is generally entitled to payments for its allowable costs and will receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if a contract is terminated for default, the contractor is generally entitled to payments for its work that has been accepted by the u.s. government, but a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. the u.s. government's right to terminate its contracts has not had a material adverse effect upon our operations, financial condition or liquidity. for a discussion of the risks associated with the u.s. government's right to terminate its contracts, see item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. u.s. government programs generally are implemented by the award of individual contracts and subcontracts. congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend across several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. the contracts and subcontracts under a program generally are subject to termination for convenience or adjustment if appropriations for such programs are not available or change. the u.s. government is required to equitably adjust a contract price for additions or reductions in scope or other changes ordered by it. for a discussion of the risks associated with program funding and appropriations, see item 1a. risk factors and overview within item 7 of this form 10-k. in addition, because we are engaged in supplying technologically-advanced, cutting-edge defense-related products and services to the u.s. government, we are subject to certain business risks, some of which are specific to our industry. these risks include: the cost of obtaining and retaining trained and skilled employees; the uncertainty and instability of prices for raw materials and supplies; the problems associated with advanced designs, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; the intense competition and the constant necessity for improvement in facility utilization and personnel training; and the impact of potential security and cyber threats. our sales to the u.s. government may be affected by changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, changing priorities for national defense, political developments abroad and other factors. see item 1a. risk factors and overview within item 7 of this form 10-k for a more detailed discussion of these and other related risks. we are also involved in u.s. government programs, principally through our iis and sas business segments, that are classified by the u.s. government and cannot be specifically described in this form 10-k. the operating results of these classified programs are included in the applicable business segment's and our consolidated results of operations. the business risks and considerations associated with these and our international classified programs generally do not differ materially from those of our other u.s. government and international programs and products. we are subject to government regulations and contract requirements that may differ from u.s. government regulation with respect to our sales to non-u.s. customers. see international sales below for more information regarding our sales outside of the u.s. and item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k for a discussion of the risks associated with international sales. international sales (in millions, except percentages) 2016 2015 2014 total international sales (1) $ 7,552 $ 7,150 $ 6,541 total international sales as a percentage of total net sales (1) 31 % 31 % 29 % (1) includes foreign military sales through the u.s. government of $2,899 million , $2,814 million and $2,962 million in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. international sales are principally in the areas of air and missile defense systems, missile systems, airborne radars, naval systems, air traffic control systems, electronic equipment, computer software and systems, personnel training, equipment 8 table of contents maintenance and microwave communications technology, cybersecurity, and other products and services permitted under the international traffic in arms regulations (itar) and the export administration regulations (ear). our international sales are conducted through raytheon company and certain u.s. and international subsidiaries. for example, raytheon systems limited, a u.k. subsidiary, provides a wide range of products and services, most notably with our ms and sas business segments, to commercial, defense and other government customers in the u.k. and globally. raytheon australia delivers integrated solutions to the australian defence force, most notably with our ids and iis business segments. generally, we internally fund our international subsidiary working capital requirements in the applicable countries. in connection with certain international sales, we utilize the services of sales representatives who are paid commissions in return for services rendered, and international consultants and advisors who are typically paid a fixed retainer fee. our forcepoint joint venture also sells certain products and services, both domestically and internationally, primarily through a network of distributors and value-added resellers. sales and income from international operations and investments are subject to u.s. government laws, regulations and policies, including the itar, the ear and the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and other anti-corruption laws and the export laws and regulations described below. they are also subject to foreign government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices, which may differ from u.s. government regulation, including export-import control, technology transfer, investments, exchange controls, repatriation of earnings and requirements to expend a portion of program funds in-country through manufacturing agreements or other financial support obligations, known as offset obligations. in addition, embargoes, international hostilities and changes in currency and commodity values can also impact our international sales. exchange restrictions imposed by various countries could restrict the transfer of funds between countries, us and our subsidiaries. we have acted to protect ourselves against various risks through insurance, foreign exchange contracts, contract provisions, government guarantees and/or progress payments. our international sales in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar were approximately $1.3 billion in both 2016 and 2015 , and $1.1 billion in 2014 , the majority of which were in british pounds and australian dollars with the remainder primarily in euros and canadian dollars. see total net sales and property, plant and equipment by geographical area set forth in note 17: business segment reporting within item 8 of this form 10 k. depending on the type of international sale, raytheon must either seek various approvals from the u.s. government under the foreign military sales process or may require an export authorization and the issuance of a license by either the u.s. department of state under the arms export control act of 1976 and its implementing regulations under the itar, the u.s. department of commerce under the export administration act of 1979 and its implementing regulations under the ear, as kept in force by the international emergency economic powers act of 1977 (ieepa), and/or the u.s. department of the treasury under ieepa or the trading with the enemy act of 1917. such licenses and authorizations may be denied for reasons of u.s. national security or foreign policy. in the case of certain exports of defense equipment and services, the department of state must notify congress at least 15-30 days (depending on the identity of the importing country that will utilize the equipment and services) prior to authorizing such exports. during that time, congress may take action to block or delay a proposed export by joint resolution which is subject to presidential veto. additional information regarding the risks associated with our international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. classified sales classified sales include u.s. government sales on programs designated as classified by the u.s. government, as well as international sales on programs for which the customer, end user or end product is prohibited from being publicly disclosed. total classified sales were 17% in 2016 , 16% in 2015 and 15% in 2014 . 9 table of contents backlog % of total backlog (2) (in millions, except percentages) 2016 2015 2016 2015 total u.s. government backlog (1) $ 21,133 $ 19,228 57 % 55 % total non-u.s. government domestic backlog 623 631 2 % 2 % total domestic backlog 21,756 19,859 59 % 57 % total foreign military sales backlog 5,969 5,685 16 % 16 % total direct foreign government backlog 8,320 8,240 23 % 24 % total non-government foreign backlog 810 885 2 % 3 % total international backlog 15,099 14,810 41 % 43 % total backlog $ 36,855 $ 34,669 100 % 100 % (1) excludes foreign military sales backlog through the u.s. government which is included in total international backlog. (2) percentages may not foot due to rounding. approximately $18.1 billion of the december 31, 2016 year-end backlog is not expected to be filled during the following twelve months. these amounts include both funded backlog (unfilled orders for which funding is authorized, appropriated and contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated or obligated to us). for additional information related to backlog figures, see segment results within item 7 of this form 10-k. research and development we conduct extensive research and development activities to continually enhance our existing products and services and develop new products and services to meet our customers' changing needs and requirements, and address new market opportunities. during 2016 , we expended $755 million on research and development efforts compared to $706 million and $500 million in 2015 and 2014 , respectively. these expenditures principally have been for product development for the u.s. government. we also conduct funded research and development activities under u.s. government contracts which are included in total net sales. for additional information related to our research and development activities, see note 1: summary of significant accounting policies within item 8 of this form 10-k. raw materials, suppliers and seasonality we are dependent upon the availability of materials and major components and the performance of our suppliers and subcontractors. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we generally have not experienced significant difficulties in procuring the necessary raw materials, components and other supplies for our products. in addition, we must comply with specific procurement requirements which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. in some instances, for a variety of reasons, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems. we are also dependent on suppliers to provide genuine original equipment manufacturer parts and have a robust set of standardized policies to detect counterfeit material, especially electronic components, throughout our supply chain. in recent years, our revenues in the second half of the year have generally exceeded revenues in the first half. some of the factors that can affect revenue recognition between accounting periods include the timing of new program awards (including international contract awards and approvals), the availability of u.s. government funding, product deliveries (which are dependent on availability of materials) and customer acceptance. we expect this trend to continue in 2017 . competition we directly participate in most major areas of development in the defense and government electronics, space, information technology and technical services and support markets. technical superiority, reputation, price, past performance, delivery schedules, financing and reliability are among the principal competitive factors considered by customers in these markets. we also compete in the commercial cybersecurity market, which is characterized by rapid changes in technology, products, customer specifications and industry standards. we compete worldwide with a number of u.s. and international companies 10 table of contents in these markets, some of which may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we frequently partner on various programs with our major suppliers, some of whom are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. in addition, u.s. defense spending levels in the future are increasingly difficult to predict. changes in u.s. defense spending may potentially limit certain future market opportunities. see item 1a. risk factors and overview within item 7 of this form 10-k for a more detailed discussion of these and other related risks. intellectual property we own an intellectual property portfolio that includes many u.s. and foreign patents, as well as unpatented trade secrets and know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights, all of which contribute to the preservation of our competitive position in the market. in certain instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. we also license our intellectual property to others, including our customers, in certain instances. the u.s. government has licenses to certain of our intellectual property, including certain patents, developed in the performance of u.s. government contracts, and has the right to use and authorize others to use such intellectual property, including the inventions covered by such patents for u.s. government purposes. while our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our operations, we do not believe that any particular trade secret, patent, trademark, copyright, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material effect on our business. employment as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately 63,000 employees. environmental regulation our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of international, federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations. we have provided for the estimated cost to complete remediation or, in the case of multi-party sites, our reasonably expected share thereof where we have determined that it is probable that we will incur such costs in the future in connection with (i) facilities that are now, or were previously, owned or operated by us, (ii) sites where we have been named a potentially responsible party (prp) by the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) or similarly designated by other environmental agencies, or (iii) sites where we have been named in a cost recovery or contribution claim by a non-governmental third party. it is difficult to estimate the timing and ultimate amount of environmental cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the discovery and application of innovative remediation technologies, and the status and interpretation of laws and regulations. if we are ultimately found to have liability at a multi-party site where we have been designated a prp or have been named in a cost recovery or contribution claim from a non-governmental third party, we expect that the actual costs of remediation will be shared with other prps. generally in the u.s. and certain other countries, prps that are ultimately determined to be responsible parties are strictly liable for site clean-up and usually agree among themselves to share, on an allocated basis, the costs and expenses for investigation and remediation of hazardous materials. under existing u.s. environmental laws, responsible parties are usually jointly and severally liable and, therefore, potentially liable for the full cost of funding such remediation. in the unlikely event that we are required to fund the entire cost of such remediation, the statutory framework provides that we may pursue rights of contribution from the other prps. the amounts we record do not reflect the unlikely event that we would be required to fund the entire cost of such remediation, nor do they reflect the possibility that we may recover some of these additional environmental costs from insurance policies or from other prps. however, a portion of these costs is eligible for future recovery through the pricing of our products and services to the u.s. government. we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the u.s. government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs have historically been primarily the responsibility of the u.s. government and we relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon u.s. government funding to pay such costs. while the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance is typically borne by either the u.s. government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. fines and penalties are unallowable costs under the contracts pursuant to which such facilities are managed. most of the u.s. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. if we were to be convicted of a criminal violation of certain u.s. federal environmental statutes, including the federal clean air act and the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be placed by the epa on the excluded parties list maintained by the government services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had 11 table of contents been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during any period of listing by the epa. additional information regarding the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and the resolution of environmental claims against us and our operations, including expected remediation costs, is contained in item 1a. risk factors , commitments and contingencies within item 7 and note 12: commitments and contingencies within item 8 of this form 10-k. available information our internet address is www.raytheon.com. we use our investor relations website as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information. we make available free of charge on or through our investor relations website our annual reports and quarterly reports on forms 10-k and 10-q (including related filings in xbrl format), current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). our sec filings are also at the public reference room of the sec at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding registrants that file electronically, including raytheon. additionally, we also make available on or through our website copies of our key corporate governance documents, including our governance principles, certificate of incorporation, by-laws and charters for the audit committee, management development and compensation committee, governance and nominating committee, public affairs committee and special activities committee of the board of directors and our code of ethics entitled code of conduct . raytheon stockholders may request free copies of these documents from our investor relations department by writing to raytheon company, investor relations, 870 winter street, waltham, ma 02451, or by calling (781) 522-5123 or sending an email request to invest@raytheon.com. the content on any website referred to in this form 10-k is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k unless expressly noted. item 1a. risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects, products and services, trends and anticipated financial performance including with respect to our revenue, liquidity and capital resources; our bookings and backlog; international sales; cybersecurity sales; our pension and other postretirement benefit (prb) expense and funding; our expectations regarding customer contracts; our capital expenditures; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; our expected tax payments; our unrecognized tax benefits; the impact of acquisitions, investments and other business arrangements; the impact and outcome of audits and legal and administrative proceedings, claims, investigations, commitments and contingencies; and the impact of changes in fair value of our reporting units; the impact of changes in foreign currency rates and interest rates; as well as information regarding domestic and international defense spending, budgets and business practices. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will , believe , anticipate , expect , estimate , intend , plan , or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission (sec). given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, or use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, except as required by law. 12 table of contents we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business, and changes in government defense spending and priorities could have consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. in 2016 , u.s. government sales, excluding foreign military sales, accounted for approximately 67% of our total net sales. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the u.s. department of defense (dod), as well as a broad range of programs with the u.s. intelligence community and other departments and agencies. the funding of our programs is subject to the overall u.s. government policies, budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geopolitical events, macroeconomic conditions, and the ability of the u.s. government to enact relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills and accords on the debt ceiling. in recent years, u.s. government appropriations have been affected by larger u.s. government budgetary issues and related legislation. in 2011, congress enacted the budget control act of 2011 (bca), which established specific limits on annual appropriations for fiscal years (fy) 2012 2021. the bca has been amended a number of times, most recently by the bipartisan budget act of 2015 (bba). as a result, dod funding levels have fluctuated over this period and have been difficult to predict. for example, the dod budget was reduced by 7.8% in fy 2013 as compared to fy 2012, but remained essentially flat for fy 2014 and 2015. the bba raised dod fy 2016 funding approximately 5% relative to fy 2015, but the ultimate dod funding for fy 2017 remains uncertain because the dod is currently operating under a continuing resolution (cr) for fy 2017. the cr limits funding levels to fy 2016 and does not authorize new spending initiatives. future spending levels are subject to a wide range of outcomes, depending on congressional action. in addition, in recent years the u.s. government has been unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, resulting in both a governmental shut-down and crs to extend sufficient funds only for u.s. government agencies to continue operating. additionally, the national debt has recently threatened to reach the statutory debt ceiling, and such an event in future years could result in the u.s. government defaulting on its debts. as a result, defense spending levels are difficult to predict beyond the near-term due to numerous factors, including the external threat environment, future governmental priorities and the state of governmental finances. significant changes in defense spending or changes in u.s. government priorities, policies and requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our financial results largely are dependent on our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts, which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and timing, as well as termination. our financial results could also be affected by development delays, cost overruns or product failures in connection with these contracts. our financial results largely are dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. while we are involved in numerous programs and are party to thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more of such contracts, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be awarded new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of termination of any of our contracts. u.s. government contracts generally permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the u.s. government's convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the u.s. government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations, which are made on a fiscal year basis even for multi-year programs. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and may not continue to be funded in future years. in addition, regular appropriation bills may be delayed, which may result in revenue and collection delays or delays in our contract performance due to lack of funds to procure related products and services. under certain circumstances, we may use our own funds to meet our customer's desired delivery dates or other requirements. furthermore, 13 table of contents if appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, the u.s. government may terminate our contract or subcontract under such program. our u.s. government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with performing our u.s. government contracts. additionally, in order to win certain u.s. government contracts, we may be required to invest in development prior to award as our customers demand more mature and proven solutions. these additional investment amounts may not be recouped if we are not chosen for new contract awards. our u.s. government contracts are typically either fixed-priced contracts or cost reimbursable contracts. fixed-price contracts represent approximately 56% of our backlog, and are predominantly either firm fixed-price (ffp) contracts or fixed-price incentive (fpi) contracts. under ffp contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and we therefore carry the burden of any cost overruns. under fpi contracts, we carry the burden of cost overruns in excess of a negotiated cost ceiling, and share with the u.s. government any costs incurred in excess of a negotiated cost target up to the cost ceiling amount. under cost reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fixed or performance-based fee, but generally are not reimbursed for costs not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations or unauthorized costs above any cost ceiling amount. due to the nature of our work under many of our u.s. government contracts discussed above, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, our profitability could be negatively affected, particularly under fixed-price development contracts. some of our u.s. government contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, this could have a negative impact on our result of operations or financial condition and liquidity. our contracts also require us to comply with extensive and evolving procurement rules and regulations, which are discussed in more detail below. in addition, we are involved in programs that are classified by the u.s. government, principally through our intelligence, information and services (iis) and space and airborne systems (sas) business segments, which have security requirements that place limits on our ability to discuss our performance on these programs, including any risks, disputes and claims. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new offerings and technologies or adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies for our current and future markets, including new international, civil, commercial, growth and emerging markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: - identify the needs of, and growth opportunities in, new and emerging markets; - identify emerging technological and other trends in our current and future markets; - identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current and future markets; - develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets; - enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; - develop, manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; - enhance product designs for export and releasability to international markets; and - effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, collaborative agreements and other forms of alliances, to reflect the competitive environment. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new offerings and technologies or to adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through customer funded and internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. we believe this is true to meet demands and expand within both our domestic and international markets, including emerging opportunities within the dod market as well as our forcepoint joint venture's growth in the commercial cybersecurity market. our expenditures to develop new offerings and technologies, or adapt and modify existing offerings and technologies, through research and development, acquisitions, joint ventures or other arrangements could divert our attention and resources from 14 table of contents other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies or identification of and expansion into new markets. due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand or that we will be successful in newly identified markets as we currently anticipate or that the acquisitions, joint ventures or other teaming arrangements we may enter into in pursuit of developing new offerings and technologies will be successful. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. additionally, the possibility exists that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings that might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share and limit our future market opportunities. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate increased competition in our core markets as a result of continued defense industry consolidation, including cross-border consolidation of competition, and the expansion of competitors' capabilities throughout the supply chain through vertical integration, each of which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position against us. we are also facing heightened competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, changes in u.s. defense spending and the u.s. government procurement environment may limit certain future market opportunities for us. for example, the dod increasingly is committed to awarding contracts through competitive bidding and relying on competitive contract award types. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors in our core markets, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, due to the current competitive environment, we continue to see an increase in bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. generally, a bid protest will delay the start of contract activities, delay earnings, and could result in the award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. in addition, our forcepoint joint venture, formed in may 2015, to accelerate our growth in the commercial cybersecurity market, faces significant competition in its areas of market focus due to rapid changes in technology, products, customer specifications and industry standards, as well as a wide range of market competitors, some of whom are significantly larger with broader product and service offerings, have best-of-breed products and/or maintain strong customer relationships. in order to compete effectively, forcepoint must successfully execute on its growth strategy, including the development of new products and services. if forcepoint is unable to compete successfully in the commercial cybersecurity market, it may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our other operations. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to extensive procurement rules and regulations. changes in such rules, regulations and business practice could negatively affect current programs and potential awards, and our business could be negatively affected if we fail to comply with any procurement rules and regulations. u.s. government contractors must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements including export-import control, security, contract pricing and cost, contract termination and adjustment, audit and product integrity requirements. these requirements impact our performance and compliance costs. in addition, the u.s. government has and may continue to implement initiatives focused on efficiencies, affordability and cost growth and other changes to its procurement practices which may negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, and could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. 15 table of contents the dod has adopted various procurement policies and practices, including contractual payment and cost reimbursement terms such as incentive-based contracts that require contractors to share cost overruns and underruns with the u.s. government, and terms relating to contractor independent research and development efforts under better buying power 3.0. recent legislation provides for other requirements, some of which differ with these policies and practices. it is unclear which policies the new administration will follow, implement or change. in addition, failure to comply with the procurement regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, cash withholds on contract payments, forfeiture of profits, and the assessment of civil and criminal penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, u.s. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. the penalties or sanctions, including contract termination, resulting from any failure to comply with applicable requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other u.s. government contracts in the future. issues with component availability, subcontractor performance or key supplier performance may affect our ability to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we are dependent upon the delivery by suppliers of materials and the assembly by subcontractors of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we also are subject to specific procurement requirements that limit the types of materials we use and may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. these procurement requirements include restrictions on the use of certain chemicals in the european union and requirements for genuine original equipment manufacturer parts. as we continue to seek further cost efficiencies throughout the enterprise, we may centralize procurements in order to attain better pricing through strategic sourcing, which may increase our dependency on certain suppliers. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if certain component materials are not available or if any of these suppliers or subcontractors otherwise fails to meet our needs or becomes insolvent, we may not have readily available alternatives or alternatives at prices that meet the demands of our customers. while we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions, such as accelerating supplier payments commensurate with value delivered, to ensure financial viability and the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. in addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors, especially smaller entities, may be susceptible to changes in global economic conditions that could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted, which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, we must conduct diligence and provide disclosure regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which may impact our procurement practices and increase our costs. our international business is subject to geopolitical and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks. our international business exposes us to geopolitical and economic factors, regulatory requirements, increasing competition and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic business. in 2016 , our sales to customers outside the u.s. (including foreign military sales through the u.s. government) accounted for 31% of our total net sales. our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments, geopolitical uncertainties, volatility in worldwide economic conditions, and various regional and local economic and political factors, including volatility in energy prices, changes in u.s. foreign policy, and other risks and uncertainties. our international sales are subject to u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including the international traffic in arms regulations (itar), the export administration regulations (ear), the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), and other anti-corruption and export laws and regulations. we maintain policies and controls to comply with such laws and 16 table of contents regulations and exercise oversight of such compliance. however, any failure by us or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and resolutions could result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties, including fines, suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our ability to export our products. in addition, due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside of the u.s. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining or maintaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that certain sales will not be prevented or delayed. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our international sales are also subject to local government laws, regulations, and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government regulations. these include regulations relating to export-import control, technology transfer, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. furthermore, our international sales contracts may be subject to non-u.s. contract laws and regulations and include contractual terms that differ from those of similar contracts in the u.s. or terms that may be interpreted differently by foreign courts. in addition, the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures, or technological or other difficulties could affect our ability to perform on our international contracts and negatively affect our profitability, and these contracts may be subject to termination for default based on performance. these contracts may also be subject to termination at the customer's convenience, and may be subject to funding risks. in connection with our international business, we also operate subsidiaries domiciled in non-u.s. locations that are subject to local government laws and regulations which may differ from u.s. government regulations. in addition, the timing of orders, customer negotiations, governmental approvals and notifications from our international customers can be less predictable than from our domestic customers, and this may lead to variations in international bookings and sales each year. we must also manage a certain degree of exposure to the risk of currency fluctuations. our international business faces substantial competition from both u.s. companies and foreign companies. in some instances, foreign companies may receive loans, marketing subsidies and other assistance from their governments that may not be available to u.s. companies. in addition, foreign companies may be subject to fewer restrictions on technology transfer than u.s. companies. our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific local purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support obligations, known as offset obligations, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. approvals of offset thresholds and requirements may be subjective and time-consuming and may delay contract awards. the costs to satisfy our offset obligations are included in the estimates of our total costs to complete the contract. offset requirements may, in certain countries, include the creation of a joint venture with a local company, which may control the venture. this could result in liability for violations of law for actions taken by these entities, such as laws related to anti-corruption, import and export, or local laws which may differ from u.s. laws and requirements. in addition, the ability to recover investments that we make may be dependent upon the success of ventures that we do not control. such offset obligations are generally multi-year arrangements and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements. in addition, customers' demands may increase for greater offset commitment levels, higher-value content to satisfy offset obligations, including the transfer of technologies and capabilities, and local economic development. we also are exposed to risks associated with using third-party foreign representatives and consultants for international sales, and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. as a result of the above factors, we could experience financial penalties and award and funding delays on international programs, our profitability on these programs could be negatively affected, and we could incur losses on these programs which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key technical personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive various security clearances and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. competition for personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. furthermore, a significant percentage of our current workforce is nearing retirement. to the extent that we lose experienced personnel, it is critical that we develop other employees, hire new qualified personnel and successfully manage 17 table of contents the transfer of critical knowledge. the loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business. our business could be negatively impacted by cyber attacks and other security breaches and other disruptions. as part of our business, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary, sensitive or classified information, threats to physical security, including our facilities and personnel, and threats from terrorism or similar acts. we also face the potential for business disruptions associated with natural disasters. cybersecurity threats in particular are persistent, evolve quickly and include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. we have in the past and will in the future continue to be the subject of cybersecurity threats. in addition, our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties with whom we do business generally face similar security threats, and in some cases we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these parties to protect against security threats. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures and controls and have invested in significant resources to appropriately identify and monitor these threats and mitigate potential risks, including risks involving our customers and suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that any such actions will be sufficient to prevent cybersecurity breaches, disruptions to mission critical systems, the unauthorized release of sensitive information or corruption of data, or harm to facilities or personnel. in addition, as a provider of products and services to government and commercial customers, including through forcepoint, our products and services may be the targets of cyber attacks that attempt to sabotage or otherwise disable them, or our cybersecurity and other products and services ultimately may not be able to effectively detect, prevent, or protect against or otherwise mitigate customer losses from all cyber attacks. the impact of these security threats and other disruptions, including cyber attacks and other security breaches, is difficult to predict. furthermore, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all related costs. these threats and other events could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties, could require significant management attention and resources, could result in the loss of business, regulatory actions and potential liability, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, any one of which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or investigatory finding by the u.s. government. as a government contractor, we are subject to audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies including the defense contract audit agency (dcaa), the defense contract management agency (dcma), the inspectors general of the dod and other departments and agencies, the government accountability office, the department of justice (doj) and congressional committees. from time to time, these and other agencies investigate or conduct audits to determine whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with applicable requirements. the dcaa and dcma also review the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies, including our accounting, purchasing, property, estimating, earned value management and material management accounting systems. our final allowable incurred costs for each year are subject to audit and have from time to time resulted in disputes between us and the u.s. government. the doj has, from time to time, convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities in our costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. an adverse outcome of any audit or investigation could result in civil and criminal penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm, which could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity, if allegations of impropriety were made against us. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer-directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, management's judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete a contract because costs 18 table of contents also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of management's judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by contract accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on plan assets (roa), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets and other actuarial factors, could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. we must determine our pension and prb plans' expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term roa and other actuarial assumptions. the discount rate assumption is set annually and we determine on an annual basis whether it is appropriate to change our long-term roa assumption. these assumptions and other actuarial assumptions may change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances. changes in our assumptions could result in negative changes to our pension and prb plans' expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans, which changes would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term roa assumption would result in a change to our pension and prb plans' expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. they may also be impacted by changes in regulatory, accounting and other requirements applicable to pensions. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by pension and prb plan accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. if we fail to manage our acquisitions, investments, divestitures, joint ventures and other transactions successfully, these activities could adversely affect our future financial results. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and joint venture, teaming and other collaborative arrangements. we undertake to identify opportunities that will complement our existing products and services or customer base, as well as expand our offerings and market reach into new areas that naturally extend from our core capabilities. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. furthermore, these transactions involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the risks involved with entering new markets, the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and managing or monitoring other collaborative business arrangements, challenges and failures in achieving strategic objectives and other expected benefits which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, unidentified issues not discovered in raytheon's due diligence, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets, the performance of underlying products, capabilities or technologies, and the potential loss of key employees and customers of acquired businesses. additionally, the joint venture agreement for our forcepoint cybersecurity joint venture company, of which raytheon owns 80.3% and vista equity partners owns 19.7%, provides vista equity partners with certain rights to exit the joint venture, including the right to require raytheon to purchase all of vista equity partners' interest in forcepoint and the right to require forcepoint to pursue an initial public offering, as well as certain other rights with respect to the management of forcepoint's business. in addition to the other risks described above, the exercise of any such rights by vista equity partners could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, or the management of our business as a whole. for a more detailed discussion regarding forcepoint, see forcepoint beginning on page 6 within item 1 of this form 10-k. 19 table of contents goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets, and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. at december 31, 2016 , we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $15.7 billion , net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 52% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill and intangible assets based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen events that could adversely affect the value of our goodwill or intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets. future determinations of significant impairments of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by goodwill accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named, or may in the future be named, as a defendant is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we are the defendant in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. in addition, we may be subject to future litigation matters, claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed or used in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others (including our competitors) to use such patents and intellectual property for government and other purposes. the u.s. government may challenge the sufficiency of intellectual property rights we have granted in u.s. government contracts and attempt to obtain greater rights. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or third-party development of similar technologies. moreover, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may differ from those of the u.s. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damage that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to past practices at a number of properties and, in some cases, have in the past been named as a defendant in related toxic tort claims. we are also subject to laws and regulations that: (i) impose requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; (ii) restrict air and water emissions from our operations (including u.s. government-owned facilities we manage); and (iii) require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can lead to substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly equipment or operational 20 table of contents changes to limit pollution emissions, decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases and/or reduce the risks of injury to people in our workplaces. if we were to be convicted of a criminal violation of certain u.s. federal environmental statutes, including the federal clean air act and the clean water act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be placed by the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) on the excluded parties list maintained by the government services administration. the listing would continue until the epa concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. listed facilities cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during any period of listing by the epa. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up standards could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including but not limited to missile systems, command and control systems, border security systems, air traffic management systems, and cybersecurity products and services. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers through contractual provisions, and obtain limitations of liability and additional defenses from the qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security (dhs) under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, or otherwise. the amount of the insurance coverage we maintain or indemnification to which we may be contractually or otherwise entitled may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we generally supplement our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. we may enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. there were no interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 . principal payments and interest rate detail for long-term debt by contractual maturity dates as of december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 , respectively, were as follows: (in millions, except percentages) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ 591 $ $ 1,500 $ $ 3,292 $ 5,383 $ 5,848 average interest rate 6.549 % 3.550 % 4.229 % 4.295 % (in millions, except percentages) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ 591 $ $ 1,500 $ 3,292 $ 5,383 $ 5,826 average interest rate 6.549 % 3.550 % 4.229 % 4.295 % in addition, the aggregate notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was $1,277 million and $1,076 million at december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 , respectively. the net notional exposure of these contracts was approximately $342 million and $117 million at december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 , respectively. for foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings . unrealized gains of $53 million and $9 million were included in other assets, net , and unrealized losses of $48 million and $29 million were included in other 73 table of contents current liabilities at december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015 , respectively. realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. at december 31, 2016 , we had short-term investments with a fair value of $100 million , which are classified as available-for-sale and consist of highly rated bank certificates of deposit with a minimum long-term debt rating of a or a2 and a minimum short-term debt rating of a-1 and p-1 . our exposure due to changes in interest rates is not material due to the nature and amount of our short-term investments (i.e., high-quality certificates of deposit which had an average maturity of approximately two months ). 74 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors of this form 10-k. u.s. government contracts include both cost reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. cost reimbursement contracts, subject to a contractual cost-ceiling amount in certain cases, provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. these contracts fall into three basic types: (1) cost-plus fixed fee contracts which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (2) cost-plus incentive fee contracts which provide for increases or decreases in the target incentive fee, within specified limits, based upon actual cost results compared to contractual cost targets; and (3) cost-plus award fee contracts which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the contractor against pre-established criteria. under cost reimbursement contracts, the contractor is reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and is paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. some costs incidental to performing contracts have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute, the far or other regulation. examples of such costs include charitable contributions, certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs. we also classify time-and-materials (t&amp;m) contracts as cost reimbursement contracts as they are typically used to cover certain contract costs plus a set amount of fee. fixed-price contracts are predominantly either firm fixed-price (ffp) contracts or fixed-price incentive (fpi) contracts. under ffp contracts, the contractor agrees to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and as a result, benefits from cost savings and carries the burden of cost overruns. under fpi contracts, the contractor shares with the u.s. government savings accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs and costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost) and carries the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. accordingly, under such contracts, the contractor's profit may also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified 7 table of contents cost objectives are met. under ffp and fpi type contracts, the contractor usually receives either performance-based payments (pbps) equaling up to 90% of the contract price or monthly progress payments from the u.s. government generally in amounts equaling 80% of costs incurred under u.s. government contracts. the remaining amount, including profits or incentive fees, is billed upon delivery and acceptance of end items under the contract. the dod has expressed a preference to utilize fpi as opposed to ffp contracts. in the event we experience a greater proportion of fpi contracts and/or progress payments for our fixed-price dod contracts in the future than historically, it could have an adverse effect on our operating margins, cash flow and liquidity. for a discussion of certain risks associated with fixed-price and cost reimbursement contracts and risks associated with changes in u.s. government procurement rules, regulations and business practices, see item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. u.s. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the u.s. government's convenience or for default based on performance. if a contract is terminated for convenience, the contractor is generally entitled to payments for its allowable costs and will receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if a contract is terminated for default, the contractor is generally entitled to payments for its work that has been accepted by the u.s. government, but a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. the u.s. government's right to terminate its contracts has not had a material adverse effect upon our operations, financial condition or liquidity. for a discussion of the risks associated with the u.s. government's right to terminate its contracts, see item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. u.s. government programs generally are implemented by the award of individual contracts and subcontracts. congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend across several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. the contracts and subcontracts under a program generally are subject to termination for convenience or adjustment if appropriations for such programs are not available or change. the u.s. government is required to equitably adjust a contract price for additions or reductions in scope or other changes ordered by it. for a discussion of the risks associated with program funding and appropriations, see item 1a. risk factors and overview within item 7 of this form 10-k. in addition, because we are engaged in supplying technologically-advanced, cutting-edge defense-related products and services to the u.s. government, we are subject to certain business risks, some of which are specific to our industry. these risks include: (1) the cost and ability to obtain and retain trained, skilled and qualified employees; (2) the uncertainty and instability of prices for raw materials and supplies; (3) the problems associated with advanced designs, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; (4) the intense competition and the constant necessity for improvement in facility utilization and personnel training; and (5) the impact of potential security and cyber threats. our sales to the u.s. government may be affected by changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, changing priorities for national defense, political developments abroad and other factors. see item 1a. risk factors and overview within item 7 of this form 10-k for a more detailed discussion of these and other related risks. we are also involved in u.s. government programs that are classified by the u.s. government and cannot be specifically described in this form 10-k. the operating results of these classified programs are included in the applicable business segment's and our consolidated results of operations. the business risks and considerations associated with these and our international classified programs generally do not differ materially from those of our other u.s. government and international programs and products. international sales (in millions, except percentages) 2017 2016 2015 total international sales (1) $ 8,085 $ 7,616 $ 7,197 total international sales as a percentage of total net sales (1) 32 % 32 % 31 % (1) includes foreign military sales through the u.s. government of $3,311 million , $2,899 million and $2,812 million in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. our international sales are conducted through raytheon company and certain u.s. and international subsidiaries. for example, raytheon systems limited (rsl), a u.k. subsidiary, provides a wide range of products and services, most notably with our ms, sas and iis business segments, to commercial, defense and other government customers in the u.k. and globally. raytheon australia delivers integrated solutions to the australian defence force, most notably with our ids and iis business segments. generally, we internally fund our international subsidiary working capital requirements in the applicable countries. in connection with certain international sales, we utilize the services of sales representatives who are paid commissions in 8 table of contents return for services rendered, and international consultants and advisors who are typically paid a fixed retainer fee. our forcepoint joint venture also sells certain products and services, both domestically and internationally, primarily through a network of distributors and value-added resellers. sales and income from international operations and investments are subject to u.s. government laws, regulations and policies, including the international traffic in arms regulations (itar), the export administration regulations (ear) and the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and other anti-corruption laws and the export laws and regulations described below. they are also subject to foreign government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices, which may differ from u.s. government regulation, including export-import control, technology transfer, investments, exchange controls, repatriation of earnings and requirements to expend a portion of program funds in-country through manufacturing agreements or other financial support obligations, also known as offset obligations or in-country industrial participation (icip) agreements. in addition, embargoes, international hostilities and changes in currency and commodity values can also impact our international sales. exchange restrictions imposed by various countries could restrict the transfer of funds between countries, us and our subsidiaries. we have acted to protect ourselves against various risks through insurance, foreign exchange contracts, contract provisions, government guarantees and/or payment terms. our international sales in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar were approximately $1.3 billion in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , the majority of which were in british pounds and australian dollars with the remainder primarily in euros and canadian dollars. see total net sales and property, plant and equipment by geographical area set forth in note 17: business segment reporting within item 8 of this form 10 k. depending on the type of international sale, raytheon must either seek various approvals from the u.s. government under the foreign military sales process or may require an export authorization and the issuance of a license by either the u.s. department of state under the arms export control act of 1976 and its implementing regulations under the itar, the u.s. department of commerce under the export administration act of 1979 and its implementing regulations under the ear, as kept in force by the international emergency economic powers act of 1977 (ieepa), and/or the u.s. department of the treasury under ieepa or the trading with the enemy act of 1917. such licenses and authorizations may be denied or delayed for reasons of u.s. national security or foreign policy. in the case of certain exports of defense equipment and services, the department of state must notify congress at least 15-30 days (depending on the identity of the importing country that will utilize the equipment and services) prior to authorizing such exports. during that time, congress may take action to block or delay a proposed export by joint resolution which is subject to presidential veto. additional information regarding the risks associated with our international business is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. classified sales classified sales include u.s. government sales on programs designated as classified by the u.s. government, as well as international sales on programs for which the customer, end user or end product is prohibited from being publicly disclosed. total classified sales were 17% in 2017 and 2016 , and 16% in 2015 . 9 table of contents backlog % of total backlog (in millions, except percentages) at december 31 2017 2016 2017 2016 total u.s. government backlog (1) $ 22,258 $ 21,144 58 % 58 % total non-u.s. government domestic backlog 740 602 2 % 2 % total domestic backlog 22,998 21,746 60 % 59 % total foreign military sales backlog 6,760 5,939 18 % 16 % total direct foreign government backlog 7,577 8,254 20 % 22 % total non-government foreign backlog 875 770 2 % 2 % total international backlog 15,212 14,963 40 % 41 % total backlog $ 38,210 $ 36,709 100 % 100 % (1) excludes foreign military sales backlog through the u.s. government which is included in total international backlog. approximately half of the december 31, 2017 year-end backlog is not expected to be filled during the following twelve months. these amounts include both funded backlog (unfilled orders for which funding is authorized, appropriated and contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated or obligated to us). for additional information related to backlog figures, see segment results within item 7 of this form 10-k. research and development we conduct extensive research and development activities to continually enhance our existing products and services and develop new products and services to meet our customers' changing needs and requirements, and address new market opportunities. during 2017 , we expended $734 million on research and development efforts compared to $755 million and $706 million in 2016 and 2015 , respectively. these expenditures principally have been for product development for the u.s. government. we also conduct funded research and development activities under u.s. government contracts which are included in total net sales. for additional information related to our research and development activities, see note 1: summary of significant accounting policies within item 8 of this form 10-k. raw materials, suppliers and seasonality we are dependent upon the availability of materials and major components and the performance of our suppliers and subcontractors. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we generally have not experienced significant difficulties in procuring the necessary raw materials, components and other supplies for our products. in addition, we must comply with specific procurement requirements which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. in some instances, for a variety of reasons, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems. we are also dependent on suppliers to provide genuine original equipment manufacturer parts and have a robust set of standardized policies to detect counterfeit material, especially electronic components, throughout our supply chain. in recent years, our revenues in the second half of the year have generally exceeded revenues in the first half. some of the factors that can affect revenue recognition between accounting periods include the timing of new program awards (including international contract awards and approvals), the availability of u.s. government funding, product deliveries (which are dependent on availability of materials) and customer acceptance. we expect this trend to continue in 2018 . additional information regarding the risks associated with our raw materials, suppliers, and seasonality is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. competition we directly participate in most major areas of development in the defense and government electronics, space, information technology and technical services and support markets. technical superiority, reputation, price, past performance, delivery schedules, and reliability are among the principal competitive factors considered by customers in these markets. we also compete in the commercial cybersecurity market, which is characterized by rapid changes in technology, products, customer 10 table of contents specifications and industry standards. we compete worldwide with a number of u.s. and international companies in these markets, some of which may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we frequently partner on various programs with our major suppliers, some of whom are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. in addition, u.s. defense spending levels in the future are difficult to predict. changes in u.s. defense spending may potentially limit certain future market opportunities. see item 1a. risk factors and overview within item 7 of this form 10-k for a more detailed discussion of these and other related risks. intellectual property we own an intellectual property portfolio that includes many u.s. and foreign patents, as well as unpatented trade secrets and know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights, all of which contribute to the preservation of our competitive position in the market. in certain instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. we also license our intellectual property to others, including our customers, in certain instances. the u.s. government has licenses to certain of our intellectual property, including certain patents, developed in the performance of u.s. government contracts, and has the right to use and authorize others to use such intellectual property, including the inventions covered by such patents for u.s. government purposes. while our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our operations, we do not believe that any particular trade secret, patent, trademark, copyright, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material effect on our business. additional information regarding the risks associated with our intellectual property is contained in item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. employment as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately 64,000 employees. environmental regulation our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of international, federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations. we have provided for the estimated cost to complete remediation or, in the case of multi-party sites, our reasonably expected share thereof where we have determined that it is probable that we will incur such costs in the future in connection with (1) facilities that are now, or were previously, owned or operated by us, (2) sites where we have been named a potentially responsible party (prp) by the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) or similarly designated by other environmental agencies, or (3) sites where we have been named in a cost recovery or contribution claim by a non-governmental third party. it is difficult to estimate the timing and ultimate amount of environmental cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the discovery and application of innovative remediation technologies, and the status and interpretation of laws and regulations. if we are ultimately found to have liability at a multi-party site where we have been designated a prp or have been named in a cost recovery or contribution claim from a non-governmental third party, we expect that the actual costs of remediation will be shared with other prps. generally in the u.s. and certain other countries, prps that are ultimately determined to be responsible parties are strictly liable for site clean-up and usually agree among themselves to share, on an allocated basis, the costs and expenses for investigation and remediation of hazardous materials. under existing u.s. environmental laws, responsible parties are usually jointly and severally liable and, therefore, potentially liable for the full cost of funding such remediation. in the unlikely event that we are required to fund the entire cost of such remediation, the statutory framework provides that we may pursue rights of contribution from the other prps. the amounts we record do not reflect the unlikely event that we would be required to fund the entire cost of such remediation, nor do they reflect the possibility that we may recover some of these additional environmental costs from insurance policies or from other prps. in addition, a portion of these costs is eligible for future recovery through the pricing of our products and services to the u.s. government. we manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the u.s. government. at such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs have historically been primarily the responsibility of the u.s. government and we relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon u.s. government funding to pay such costs. while the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance is typically borne by either the u.s. government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. fines and penalties are unallowable costs under the contracts pursuant to which such facilities are managed. most of the u.s. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. a criminal violation of certain u.s. environmental statutes such as the clean air act and clean water act could result in suspension, debarment or disqualification 11 table of contents by the epa. facilities in violation of these statutes cannot be used to perform any u.s. government contract work until the violation has been corrected and the epa approves the reinstatement of the facility. additional information regarding the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and the resolution of environmental claims against us and our operations, including expected remediation costs, is contained in item 1a. risk factors, commitments and contingencies within item 7 and note 11: commitments and contingencies within item 8 of this form 10-k. available information our internet address is www.raytheon.com. we use our investor relations website as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information. we make available free of charge on or through our investor relations website our annual reports and quarterly reports on forms 10-k and 10-q (including related filings in extensible business reporting language (xbrl) format), current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). our sec filings are also at the public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding registrants that file electronically, including raytheon. additionally, we also make available on or through our website copies of our key corporate governance documents, including our governance principles, certificate of incorporation, by-laws and charters for the audit committee, management development and compensation committee (mdcc), governance and nominating committee, public affairs committee and special activities committee of the board of directors and our code of ethics entitled code of conduct. raytheon stockholders may request free copies of these documents from our investor relations department by writing to raytheon company, investor relations, 870 winter street, waltham, ma 02451, or by calling (781) 522-5123 or sending an email request to invest@raytheon.com. the content on any website referred to in this form 10-k is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k unless expressly noted. item 1a. risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects, products and services, trends and anticipated financial performance including with respect to our revenue, liquidity and capital resources; our bookings and backlog; international sales; cybersecurity sales; our pension and other postretirement benefit (prb) expense and funding; our expectations regarding customer contracts; our capital expenditures; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; our expected tax payments and tax rate; our unrecognized tax benefits; the effect of the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (2017 act), including on our deferred tax balances and one-time transition tax on foreign earnings; the impact of acquisitions, investments and other business arrangements; the impact and outcome of audits and legal and administrative proceedings, claims, investigations, commitments and contingencies; and the impact of changes in fair value of our reporting units; the impact of changes in foreign currency rates and interest rates; as well as information regarding domestic and international defense spending, budgets and business practices. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission (sec). given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, or use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, except as required by law. 12 table of contents we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business, and changes in u.s. government defense spending and priorities could impact our financial position, results of operations and overall business. in 2017 , u.s. government sales, excluding foreign military sales, accounted for approximately 67% of our total net sales. our u.s. government revenues largely result from contracts awarded under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the u.s. department of defense (dod), and a broad range of programs with the u.s. intelligence community and other departments and agencies. our programs are subject to u.s. government policies, budget decisions and appropriation processes which are driven by numerous factors including: (1) geopolitical events; (2) macroeconomic conditions; and (3) the ability of the u.s. government to enact relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills. in recent years, u.s. government appropriations have been affected by larger u.s. government budgetary issues and related legislation. in 2011, congress enacted the budget control act of 2011 (bca), which established specific limits on annual appropriations for fiscal years (fy) 2012 2021. the bca has been amended a number of times leading to fluctuations and unpredictability in annual dod funding levels. for example, the dod budget fell by 7% in fy 2013, remained essentially flat for fy 2014 and 2015, and increased by 5% and 3% for fy 2016 and fy 2017, respectively, in each case compared to the prior year. while dod funding for fy 2018 and fy 2019 is expected to increase, the dod is currently operating under a continuing resolution (cr) for fy 2018, which limits fy 2018 funding levels to fy 2017. future spending levels are difficult to predict. they are subject to a wide range of outcomes and depend on congressional action. in addition, in recent years the u.s. government has been unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, resulting in both governmental shut-downs and crs providing only enough funds for u.s. government agencies to continue operating. u.s. government defense spending levels are difficult to predict beyond the near-term due to numerous factors, including the external threat environment, future governmental priorities and the state of governmental finances. significant changes in u.s. government defense spending or changes in u.s. government priorities, policies and requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our financial results largely are dependent on our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts, which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and timing, as well as termination. our financial results could also be affected by performance delays, cost overruns, product failures or definitization delays in connection with these contracts. our financial results largely are dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. although we have thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more of our contracts, or the occurrence of performance delays, cost overruns, product failures, or contract definitization delays could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. further, we can give no assurance that we would be awarded new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of the termination of any of our contracts. u.s. government contracts generally permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the u.s. government's convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for work accepted by the u.s. government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. in addition, we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor on some contracts. in these arrangements, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, without regard to our performance as a subcontractor. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations, which are made on a fiscal year basis even for multi-year programs. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and may not continue to be funded in future years. in addition, regular appropriation bills may be delayed, which may result in delays to revenue, the collection of receivables and our contract performance due to lack of authorized funds to procure related products and services. under certain circumstances, we may use our own funds to meet our customer's desired delivery dates or other requirements but we may not be reimbursed. further, if appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, reduced or delayed, the u.s. government may terminate our contract or subcontract under that program. our u.s. government contracts typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in 13 table of contents some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns or product failures. additionally, in order to win certain u.s. government contracts, we may be required to invest in development prior to award as our customers demand more mature and proven solutions. these additional investment amounts may not be recovered if we are not chosen for new contract awards. our u.s. government contracts are typically either fixed-priced contracts or cost reimbursable contracts. fixed-price contracts represent approximately 63% of our backlog, and are predominantly either firm fixed-price (ffp) contracts or fixed-price incentive (fpi) contracts. under ffp contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and we therefore carry the burden of any cost overruns. under fpi contracts, we share with the u.s. government savings for cost underruns less than target costs and expenses for cost overruns exceeding target costs up to a negotiated cost ceiling. we carry the entire burden of cost overruns exceeding the cost ceiling amount under fpi contracts. under cost reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fixed or performance-based fee, but we are generally not reimbursed for unauthorized costs exceeding a cost ceiling amount or costs not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations. due to the nature of our work under many of our u.s. government contracts, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, our profitability could be negatively affected, particularly under fixed-price development contracts. we may also experience cost underruns which would reduce contract value and related expected revenues, and we may be unable to expand the contract scope or secure additional work to offset the resulting lost revenues. some of our u.s. government contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts it could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our contracts also require us to comply with extensive and evolving procurement rules and regulations, which are discussed in more detail below. from time to time, we may begin performance under an undefinitized contract award with a not-to-exceed price prior to completing contract negotiations in order to support u.s. government priorities. uncertainties in final contract price, specifications and terms, or loss of negotiating leverage associated with particularly long delays in contract definitization, may negatively affect our profitability. in addition, we are involved in programs that are classified by the u.s. government which have security requirements that place limits on our ability to discuss our performance on these programs, including any risks, disputes and claims. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to continue achievement of our growth strategy, we must successfully develop new offerings and technologies or adapt existing offerings and technologies for our current and future markets including new international, civil, and commercial markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability in current, emerging and future growth markets to: identify market needs and growth opportunities; identify emerging technological and other trends; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs; develop and maintain competitive products and services; enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; develop, manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; enhance product designs for export and releasability to international markets; and effectively structure our businesses to reflect the competitive environment including through the use of joint ventures, collaborative agreements and other forms of alliances. we believe that in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new, and adapt existing, offerings and technologies. we fund this investment through customer funded and internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. we believe this investment is needed to meet demands and expand in our domestic and international markets, including emerging opportunities within the dod market and the commercial cybersecurity market in which our forcepoint joint venture competes. our investments to develop new offerings and technologies, or adapt existing offerings and technologies, could divert our attention and resources from 14 table of contents other projects. in addition, we cannot be sure that these investments will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies or identification of and expansion into new or growth markets. due to the design complexity of our products, we may experience future delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. further, our competitors may develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. in addition, there can be no assurance that: (1) the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand; (2) we will be successful in newly identified markets as we currently anticipate; or (3) the acquisitions, joint ventures or other teaming arrangements we may enter into in pursuit of developing new offerings and technologies will be successful. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. our existing technology and offerings may become obsolete due to new competitive technology or offerings. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance faster than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share and limit our future market opportunities. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. we anticipate companies continuing to enhance their competitive position against us in our core markets as a result of continued domestic and cross-border defense industry consolidation and the expansion of competitors' capabilities throughout the supply chain through vertical integration. we are also facing heightened competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, u.s. defense spending and u.s. government procurement strategies may limit our future market opportunities. for example, the dod continues to award contracts through competitive bidding and relying on competitive contract award types and bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards are becoming more frequent. generally, a bid protest will delay the start of contract activities, delay earnings, and could result in the award decision being overturned and require a re-bid of the contract. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors in our core markets, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. in addition, our forcepoint cybersecurity joint venture faces significant competition due to rapid changes in technology, products, customer specifications and industry standards. it also has a wide range of market competitors, some that are significantly larger with broader product and service offerings or have best-of-breed products and/or maintain stronger customer relationships. in order to compete effectively, forcepoint must successfully execute on its growth strategy, including the development of new products and services. if forcepoint is unable to compete successfully, it may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise benefit our other operations. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to extensive procurement rules and regulations. changes in rules, regulations and business practices could negatively affect current programs and potential awards. our business could be negatively affected if we fail to comply with any procurement rules and regulations. as a u.s. government contractor, we must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements including: (1) export-import control; (2) security; (3) contract pricing and cost; (4) contract termination and adjustment; and (5) audit and product integrity requirements. these requirements impact our performance and compliance costs. in addition, the u.s. government has and may continue to implement initiatives focused on efficiencies, affordability and cost growth and other changes to its procurement practices which may negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. this could also affect whether we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to pursue them. for example, in recent years the dod has increasingly included contractual payment and cost reimbursement terms such as incentive-based contracts that require contractors to share cost overruns and underruns with the u.s. government. 15 table of contents in addition, failure to comply with procurement regulations and requirements could result in: (1) reductions in contract value; (2) contract modifications or termination; (3) cash withholds on contract payments; (4) forfeiture of profits; and (5) the assessment of civil and criminal penalties and fines. any of these could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to: (1) procurement integrity; (2) export control; (3) u.s. government security regulations; (4) employment practices; (5) protection of the environment; (6) accuracy of records and the recording of costs; and (7) foreign corruption. penalties or sanctions resulting from any failure to comply with applicable requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. this could also have a negative impact on our reputation, lead to contract terminations and reduce our ability to procure other u.s. government contracts in the future. issues with component availability, subcontractor performance or key supplier performance may affect our ability to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we depend on our suppliers delivering materials, and on our subcontractors assembling major components and subsystems for our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we also are subject to specific procurement requirements that limit the types of materials we use which may limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. these procurement requirements include restrictions on the use of certain chemicals in the european union (eu) and requirements for genuine original equipment manufacturer parts. as we continue to seek further cost efficiencies throughout our business, we may centralize procurements in order to attain better pricing through strategic sourcing, which may increase our dependency on certain suppliers. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if certain component materials are not available or if any of these suppliers or subcontractors otherwise fails to meet our needs or becomes insolvent, we may not have readily available alternatives or alternatives at prices that meet the demands of our customers. we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions, such as accelerating supplier payments commensurate with value delivered, to ensure financial viability of our suppliers and the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems. however, we cannot be sure that such items will be available at all or in the needed quantities. in addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors may be susceptible to changes in global economic conditions that could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, it could negatively impact our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations. this could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing this type of problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. in addition, we must conduct diligence and provide disclosure regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which may impact our procurement practices and increase our costs. our international business is subject to geopolitical and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks. our international business exposes us to geopolitical and economic factors, regulatory requirements, increasing competition and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic business. in 2017 , our sales to customers outside the u.s. (including foreign military sales through the u.s. government) accounted for 32% of our total net sales. our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by: (1) changes in threat environments; (2) geopolitical uncertainties; (3) volatility in worldwide economic conditions; and (4) various regional and local economic and political factors, including volatility in energy prices, changes in u.s. foreign policy, and other risks and uncertainties. our international sales are subject to u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including the international traffic in arms regulations (itar), the export administration regulations (ear), the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), and other anti-corruption and export laws and regulations. we maintain policies and controls to comply with such laws and regulations and exercise oversight of such compliance. however, any failure by us or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties including fines, suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our ability to export our products. in addition, due to the nature of our products, we must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before selling our products outside of the u.s. the receipt of such approvals may be affected or delayed by geopolitical and other factors. 16 table of contents moreover, some of our international contracts may be subject to termination for failure to receive such approvals in a timely manner. if we are not successful in timely obtaining or maintaining the necessary licenses or authorizations, certain sales may be reversed, prevented or delayed. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our international sales are also subject to local government laws, regulations, and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government regulations. these include regulations relating to export-import control, technology transfer, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. further, our international sales contracts may be subject to non-u.s. contract laws and regulations and include contractual terms that differ from those of similar contracts in the u.s. or terms that may be interpreted differently by foreign courts. the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures, or technological or other difficulties could affect our ability to perform on our international contracts and negatively affect our profitability. in addition, these contracts may be subject to termination for default based on performance or failure to obtain u.s. government export approvals. these contracts may also be subject to termination at the customer's convenience, and may be subject to funding risks. in connection with our international business, we also operate subsidiaries domiciled in non-u.s. locations that are subject to local government laws and regulations which may differ from u.s. government regulations. in addition, the timing of orders, customer negotiations, governmental approvals and notifications from our international customers can be less predictable than from our domestic customers. this may lead to variations in international bookings and sales each year. we must also manage a certain degree of exposure to the risk of currency fluctuations. our international business faces substantial competition from both u.s. companies and foreign companies. in some instances, foreign companies may be owned by foreign governments or may receive loans, marketing subsidies and other assistance from their governments that may not be available to u.s. companies. in addition, foreign companies may be subject to fewer restrictions on technology transfer than u.s. companies. our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific local purchases, manufacturing agreements, technology transfer agreements or financial support obligations, sometimes in the form of either offset obligations or in-country industrial participation (icip) agreements. approvals of offset or icip thresholds and requirements may be subjective and time-consuming and may delay contract awards. offset requirements may, in certain countries, include the creation of a joint venture with a local company which may control the venture. this could result in liability for violations of law for actions taken by these entities, including laws related to anti-corruption, import and export, or local laws which may differ from u.s. laws and requirements. in addition, the ability to recover investments that we make may be dependent upon the success of ventures that we do not control. such offset obligations are generally multi-year arrangements and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements. in addition, certain customers' demands are increasing for greater offset or icip commitment levels, higher-value content, including the transfer of technologies and capabilities, and local production and economic development. we also are exposed to risks associated with using third-party foreign representatives and consultants for international sales, and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. as a result of the above factors, we could experience financial penalties and award and funding delays on international programs, our profitability on these programs could be negatively affected, and we could incur losses on these programs which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key technical personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive various security clearances and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. necessary security clearances may be delayed, which may impact our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts. further, a significant percentage of our current workforce is nearing or eligible for retirement. to the extent that we lose experienced personnel, it is critical that we develop other employees, hire new qualified personnel and successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge. loss of key employees, failure to attract new qualified employees or adequately train them, delays in receiving required security clearances, or delays in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business. 17 table of contents our business could be negatively impacted by cyber attacks and other security breaches and other disruptions. as part of our business we face certain security threats including: (1) threats to our information technology infrastructure; (2) attempts to gain access to our proprietary, sensitive or classified information; (3) threats to physical security, including our facilities and personnel; and (4) threats from terrorism or similar acts. we also face the potential for business disruptions associated with natural disasters. cybersecurity threats in particular are persistent, evolve quickly and include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. we have in the past and will in the future continue to be the subject of cybersecurity threats. in addition, our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties with whom we do business generally face similar security threats and in some cases we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these parties to protect against security threats. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures and controls and have invested in significant resources to appropriately identify and monitor these threats and mitigate potential risks, including risks involving our customers and suppliers. however, there can be no assurance that any such actions will be sufficient to prevent cybersecurity breaches, disruptions to mission critical systems, the unauthorized release of sensitive information or corruption of data, or harm to facilities or personnel. as a provider of products and services to government and commercial customers, including through forcepoint, our products and services may be the targets of cyber attacks that attempt to sabotage or otherwise disable them. our cybersecurity and other products and services ultimately may not be able to effectively detect, prevent, or protect against or otherwise mitigate customer losses from all cyber attacks. in addition, some products and services that we provide to customers, particularly those related to public security, may raise potential liabilities related to privacy and intellectual property. the impact of these security threats and other disruptions is difficult to predict. further, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all related costs and we may not otherwise be fully indemnified for them. these threats and other events could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties. they could require significant management attention and resources and could result in the loss of business, regulatory actions and potential liability. they could also negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public. any one of these outcomes could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or investigatory finding by the u.s. government. we are subject to audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies including the defense contract audit agency (dcaa), the defense contract management agency (dcma), the inspectors general of the dod and other departments and agencies, the government accountability office, the department of justice (doj) and congressional committees, in large part because we are a government contractor. from time to time, these and other agencies investigate or conduct audits to determine whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with applicable requirements. the dcaa and dcma also review the adequacy of and our compliance with our internal control systems and policies, including our accounting, purchasing, property, estimating, earned value management and material management accounting systems. our final allowable incurred costs for each year are subject to audit and have from time to time resulted in disputes between us and the u.s. government. in some cases, the doj has convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities in our costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. an adverse outcome of any audit or investigation could result in civil and criminal penalties and fines which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. in addition, if allegations of impropriety were made against us, we could suffer serious reputational harm which could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. accounting for long-term contracts requires estimates and judgments related to our progress toward completion. significant judgments include potential risks associated with the ability and cost to achieve program schedule, including customer-directed delays or reductions in scheduled deliveries, and technical and other specific contract requirements. due to the size and long-term nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. management must make assumptions and estimates regarding contract revenue and cost (including estimates of award fees and penalties), including with respect to: (1) labor productivity and availability; (2) the complexity of the work 18 table of contents to be performed; (3) the availability of materials; (4) the length of time to complete the performance obligation; (5) execution by our subcontractors; (6) the availability and timing of funding from our customer; and (7) overhead cost rates, among other variables. because of the significance of management's judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by contract accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on plan assets (roa), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets and other actuarial factors, could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. we must determine our pension and prb plans' expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term roa and other actuarial assumptions. the discount rate assumption is set annually and we determine on an annual basis whether it is appropriate to change our long-term roa assumption. these assumptions and other actuarial assumptions may change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances. changes in our assumptions could result in negative changes to our pension and prb plans' expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans, which would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term roa assumption would result in a change to our pension and prb plans' expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. they may also be impacted by changes in regulatory, accounting and other requirements applicable to pensions. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by pension and prb plan accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. if we fail to manage our acquisitions, investments, divestitures, joint ventures and other transactions successfully, these activities could adversely affect our future financial results. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and other teaming and collaborative arrangements. we undertake to identify opportunities that will complement our existing products and services or customer base, as well as expand our offerings and market reach into new areas that naturally extend from our core capabilities. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. further, these transactions involve certain other risks and uncertainties including: (1) the risks involved with entering new markets; (2) the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and managing or monitoring other collaborative business arrangements; (3) challenges and failures in achieving strategic objectives and other expected benefits which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; (4) unidentified issues not discovered in raytheon's due diligence; (5) the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives; (6) the potential impairment of acquired assets; (7) the performance of underlying products, capabilities or technologies; and (8) the potential loss of key employees and customers of acquired businesses. in addition, future transactions may impact our deployment of capital, including dividends, stock repurchases, pension contributions, and investments. additionally, the joint venture agreement for our forcepoint cybersecurity joint venture company, of which raytheon owns 80.5% and vista equity partners owns 19.5%, provides vista equity partners with certain rights to exit the joint venture, including the right to require raytheon to purchase all of vista equity partners' interest in forcepoint and the right to require forcepoint to pursue an initial public offering, as well as certain other protective rights with respect to the management of forcepoint's business. in addition to the other risks described above, the exercise of any such rights by vista equity partners could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, or the management of our business as a whole. for a more detailed discussion regarding forcepoint, see forcepoint beginning on page 6 within item 1 of this form 10-k. 19 table of contents goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets, and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. at december 31, 2017 , we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $15.6 billion which represented 51% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test annually and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. in the event of an impairment any excess goodwill must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill and intangible assets based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen events that could adversely affect the value of our goodwill or intangible assets and trigger an impairment evaluation. future determinations of significant impairments of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by goodwill accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named, or may in the future be named, as a defendant is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are the defendant in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. in addition, we may be subject to future litigation matters, claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed or used in performance of government contracts. the u.s. government may use or authorize others (including our competitors) to use such patents and intellectual property for government and other purposes. the u.s. government may challenge the sufficiency of intellectual property rights we have granted in u.s. government contracts and attempt to obtain greater rights. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties and litigation can be costly, even if successful, and can direct our attention from other areas of our business. all of the above could diminish the value of our intellectual property, affecting our ability to procure future business or maximize the use of our intellectual property to increase our revenue. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or third-party development of similar technologies. intellectual property obtained from third parties is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. moreover, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may differ from those of the u.s. if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or continue to access licensed technologies, it could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damage that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to past practices at a number of properties and, in some cases, have in the past been named as a defendant in related toxic tort claims. 20 table of contents we are also subject to laws and regulations that: (1) impose requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; (2) restrict air and water emissions from our operations (including u.s. government-owned facilities we manage); and (3) require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can lead to substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions, decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases and/or reduce the risks of injury to people in our workplaces. most of the u.s. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. a criminal violation of certain u.s. environmental statutes such as the clean air act and clean water act could result in suspension, debarment or disqualification by the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa). if we were to be convicted of a criminal violation of certain u.s. federal environmental statutes, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could not be used to perform any u.s. government contract work until the violation has been corrected and the epa approves the reinstatement of the facility. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up standards could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers through contractual provisions, and we may obtain limitations of liability and additional defenses for various reasons including the qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security (dhs) under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002. the amount of the insurance coverage we maintain or indemnification to which we may be contractually or otherwise entitled may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. further, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. we recorded preliminary estimates of the impact of the 2017 act enacted on december 22, 2017 in accordance with staff accounting bulletin no. 118 (sab 118). these estimates are subject to further analysis and review which may result in material adjustments in 2018. in addition, we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we generally supplement our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments, payments to vendors and customer receipts. we may enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. there were no interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 . 72 table of contents principal payments and interest rate detail for long-term debt by contractual maturity dates as of december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 , respectively, were as follows: (in millions, except percentages) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ 1,500 $ $ 1,100 $ 2,192 $ 4,792 $ 5,293 average interest rate 3.550 % 2.500 % 5.097 % 4.017 % (in millions, except percentages) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ 591 $ $ 1,500 $ $ 3,292 $ 5,383 $ 5,848 average interest rate 6.549 % 3.550 % 4.229 % 4.295 % in addition, the aggregate notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was $1,354 million and $1,277 million at december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 , respectively. the net notional exposure of these contracts was approximately $525 million and $342 million at december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 , respectively. the fair value of asset derivatives included in other assets, net and liability derivatives included in other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets related to foreign currency contracts were $28 million and $17 million , respectively at december 31, 2017 and $53 million and $48 million , respectively at december 31, 2016 . for foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. at december 31, 2017 , we had short-term investments with a fair value of $297 million , which are classified as available-for-sale and consist of highly rated bank certificates of deposit with a minimum long-term debt rating of a or a2 and a minimum short-term debt rating of a-1 and p-1 . our exposure due to changes in interest rates is not material due to the nature and amount of our short-term investments (i.e., high-quality certificates of deposit which had an average maturity of approximately three months ). 73 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects, products and services, trends and anticipated financial performance including with respect to: our revenue, liquidity and capital resources; our bookings and backlog; international sales, including our ability to do business in the kingdom of saudi arabia (ksa) and delays in the congressional notification process for direct commercial sales contracts for precision guided munitions to certain middle eastern customers; cybersecurity sales; our pension and other postretirement benefit (prb) expense and funding; our recognition of revenue on certain performance obligations; our expectations regarding customer demand and contracts; seasonality of our business; our capital expenditures; our amortization expense; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; our expected tax payments and tax rate; our unrecognized tax benefits; our reclassifications of gains or losses on cash flow hedges; the impact of acquisitions, investments and other business arrangements and the tax deductibility of goodwill; the impact and outcome of audits and legal and administrative proceedings, claims, investigations, commitments and contingencies; the impact of certain regional developments; the impact of changes in fair value of our reporting units; the impact of changes in foreign currency rates; as well as information regarding domestic and international defense spending, budgets and business practices. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission (sec). given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, or use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, except as required by law. we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business, and changes in u.s. government defense spending and priorities could impact our financial position, results of operations and overall business. in 2018 , u.s. government sales, excluding foreign military sales, accounted for approximately 68% of our total net sales. our u.s. government revenues largely result from contracts awarded under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the u.s. department of defense (dod), and a broad range of programs with the u.s. intelligence community and other departments and agencies. our programs are subject to u.s. government policies, budget decisions and appropriation processes which are driven by numerous factors including: (1) geopolitical events; (2) macroeconomic conditions; and (3) the ability of the u.s. government to enact relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills. in recent years, u.s. government appropriations have been affected by larger u.s. government budgetary issues and related legislation. the budget control act of 2011 (bca) established specific limits on annual appropriations for fiscal years (fy) 2012 2021, but was amended a number of times leading to fluctuations and unpredictability in annual dod funding levels. as compared to the relevant preceding year, the dod budget fell in fy 2013, remained essentially flat for fy 2014 and 2015, and increased for fy 2016 to 2019. while fy 2019 dod appropriations were completed before the fiscal year began, bca caps remain in place for fy 2020 and 2021. further, the dod budget requires the agreement and action of both congress and the president. in addition, in previous years the u.s. government has been unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, resulting in both governmental shut-downs and continuing resolutions (crs) providing only enough funds for u.s. government agencies to continue operating. further, if the u.s. government debt ceiling is not raised and the national debt reaches the statutory debt ceiling, the u.s. government could default on its debts. as a result, u.s. government defense spending levels are subject to a wide range of outcomes and are difficult to predict beyond the near-term due to numerous factors, including the external threat environment, future governmental priorities and the state of governmental finances. significant changes in u.s. government defense spending or changes in u.s. government priorities, policies and requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 12 table of contents our financial results largely are dependent on our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts, which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and timing, as well as termination. our financial results could also be affected by performance delays, cost overruns, product failures, materials or components shortages, or definitization delays in connection with these contracts. our financial results largely are dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. although we have thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more of our contracts, or the occurrence of performance delays, cost overruns, product failures, materials or components shortages, or contract definitization delays could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. u.s. government contracts generally permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the u.s. government's convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for work accepted by the u.s. government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. in addition, we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor on some contracts. in these arrangements, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, without regard to our performance as a subcontractor. further, we can give no assurance that we would be awarded new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of the termination of any of our contracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations, which are made on a fiscal year basis even for multi-year programs. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and may not continue to be funded in future years. in addition, regular appropriation bills may be delayed, which may result in delays to revenue, the collection of receivables and our contract performance due to lack of authorized funds to procure related products and services. under certain circumstances, we may use our own funds to meet our customer's desired delivery dates or other requirements but we may not be reimbursed. further, if appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, reduced or delayed, the u.s. government may terminate for convenience our contract or subcontract under that program. our u.s. government contracts typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns or product failures and could divert our attention or resources from other projects. with the change in the u.s. government focus on new technologies, such as interceptors, space-based sensors, high-energy lasers, hypersonics, and counter-hypersonics, we have more development programs. our failure to execute effectively on these programs could impact our future sales opportunities. additionally, in order to win certain u.s. government contracts, we may be required to invest in development prior to award as our customers demand more mature and proven solutions. these additional investment amounts may not be recovered if we are not chosen for new contract awards. our u.s. government contracts are typically either fixed-priced contracts or cost reimbursement contracts. fixed-price contracts represent approximately 61% of our backlog, and are predominantly either firm fixed-price (ffp) contracts or fixed-price incentive (fpi) contracts. under ffp contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and we therefore carry the burden of any cost overruns. under fpi contracts, we share with the u.s. government savings for cost underruns less than target costs and expenses for cost overruns exceeding target costs up to a negotiated cost ceiling. we carry the entire burden of cost overruns exceeding the cost ceiling amount under fpi contracts. under cost reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fixed or performance-based fee, but we are generally not reimbursed for unauthorized costs exceeding a cost ceiling amount or costs not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations. due to the nature of our work under many of our u.s. government contracts, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, our profitability could be negatively affected, particularly under fixed-price development contracts. we may also experience cost underruns which would reduce contract value and related expected revenues, and we may be unable to expand the contract scope or secure additional work to offset the resulting lost revenues. some of our u.s. government contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts it could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our contracts also require us to comply with extensive and evolving procurement rules and regulations, which are discussed in more detail below. 13 table of contents from time to time, we may begin performance under an undefinitized contract award with a not-to-exceed price prior to completing contract negotiations in order to support u.s. government priorities. uncertainties in final contract price, specifications and terms, or loss of negotiating leverage associated with particularly long delays in contract definitization, may negatively affect our profitability. in addition, we are involved in programs that are classified by the u.s. government which have security requirements that place limits on our ability to discuss our performance on these programs, including any risks, disputes and claims. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to continue achievement of our growth strategy, we must successfully develop new offerings and technologies or adapt existing offerings and technologies for our current and future markets including new international, civil, and commercial markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability in current, emerging and future growth markets to: identify market needs and growth opportunities; identify emerging technological and other trends; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs; develop and maintain competitive products and services at competitive prices; enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; develop, manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; enhance product designs for export and releasability to international markets; and effectively structure our businesses to reflect the competitive environment including through the use of joint ventures, collaborative agreements and other forms of alliances. we believe that in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new, and adapt existing, offerings and technologies. we fund this investment through customer funded and internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. we believe this investment is needed to meet demands and expand in our domestic and international markets, including emerging opportunities within the dod market and the commercial cybersecurity market in which our forcepoint joint venture competes. our investments to develop new offerings and technologies, or adapt existing offerings and technologies, could divert our attention and resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot be sure that these investments will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies or identification of and expansion into new or growth markets. due to the design complexity of our products, we may experience future delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. these risks are heightened by recent increases in new development programs. further, our competitors may develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. in addition, there can be no assurance that: (1) the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand; (2) we will be successful in newly identified markets as we currently anticipate; or (3) the acquisitions, joint ventures or other teaming arrangements we may enter into in pursuit of developing new offerings and technologies will be successful. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. our existing technology and offerings may become obsolete due to new competitive technology or offerings. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance faster than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share and limit our future market opportunities. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. we anticipate companies continuing to enhance their competitive position against us in our core markets as a result of continued domestic and cross-border defense industry consolidation and the expansion of competitors' capabilities throughout the supply chain through vertical integration. we are also facing heightened competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. in addition, as 14 table of contents discussed in more detail above, u.s. defense spending and u.s. government procurement strategies may limit our future market opportunities. for example, the dod continues to award contracts through competitive bidding. highly competitive pricing, in which a bidder may anticipate making a substantial investment in a program in order to win the work, has been seen in certain cases. in addition, bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards are becoming more frequent. generally, a bid protest will delay the start of contract activities, delay earnings, and could result in the award decision being overturned and require a re-bid of the contract. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. the dod has also increased its use of other transaction authority (ota) contracts, under which it awards research and development work without all of the procurement requirements that typically apply to dod contracts, including justification of sole source awards. in addition, the u.s. government has been awarding more development programs due to changing u.s. government priorities. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors in our core markets, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. in addition, our forcepoint cybersecurity joint venture faces significant competition due to rapid changes in technology, products, customer specifications and industry standards. it also has a wide range of market competitors, some that are significantly larger with broader product and service offerings or have best-of-breed products and/or maintain stronger customer relationships. in order to compete effectively, forcepoint must successfully execute on its growth strategy, including the development of new products and services. if forcepoint is unable to compete successfully, it may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise benefit our other operations. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to extensive procurement rules and regulations. changes in rules, regulations and business practices could negatively affect current programs and potential awards. our business could be negatively affected if we fail to comply with any procurement rules and regulations. as a u.s. government contractor, we must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements including: (1) export-import control; (2) security; (3) contract pricing and cost; (4) contract termination and adjustment; and (5) audit and product integrity requirements. these requirements impact our performance and compliance costs. in addition, the u.s. government has and may continue to implement initiatives focused on efficiencies, affordability and cost growth and other changes to its procurement practices which may negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. this could also affect whether we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to pursue them. for example, in recent years the dod has increasingly included contractual payment and cost reimbursement terms such as incentive-based contracts that require contractors to share cost overruns and underruns with the u.s. government. in addition, failure to comply with procurement regulations and requirements could result in: (1) reductions in contract value; (2) contract modifications or termination; (3) cash withholds on contract payments; (4) forfeiture of profits; and (5) the assessment of civil and criminal penalties and fines. any of these could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to: (1) procurement integrity; (2) export control; (3) u.s. government security regulations; (4) employment practices; (5) protection of the environment; (6) accuracy of records and the recording of costs; and (7) foreign corruption. penalties or sanctions resulting from any failure to comply with applicable requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. this could also have a negative impact on our reputation, lead to contract terminations and reduce our ability to procure other u.s. government contracts in the future. issues with component availability, subcontractor performance or key supplier performance may affect our ability to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we depend on our suppliers delivering materials, and on our subcontractors assembling major components and subsystems for our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. we are subject to specific procurement requirements that limit the types of materials we use which may limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. these procurement requirements include restrictions on the use of certain chemicals in the european union (eu) and requirements for genuine original equipment manufacturer parts. as we continue to seek further 15 table of contents cost efficiencies throughout our business, we may centralize procurements in order to attain better pricing through strategic sourcing, which may increase our dependency on certain suppliers. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. in recent years, our supplier pool has become further limited in some areas due to consolidation and supplier business closures. in addition, our suppliers may experience materials or components shortages. tariffs recently imposed on certain materials and other trade issues may create or exacerbate existing materials shortages, and may also result in further supplier business closures. some products require relatively scarce raw materials, including some which are largely controlled by a single country, and the ability to source those materials is dependent on u.s. relations with the country. in addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors may be susceptible to changes in global economic conditions that could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. if certain component materials are not available or if any of our suppliers or subcontractors otherwise fails to meet our needs or becomes insolvent, we may not have readily available alternatives or alternatives at prices that meet the demands of our customers. we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions, such as accelerating supplier payments commensurate with value delivered, to ensure financial viability of our suppliers and the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems. however, we cannot be sure that such items will be available at all or in the needed quantities. in addition, we require our suppliers to deliver components and services that are free from viruses and malicious code that may damage or destroy such components and interrupt such services, and include in our contracts with our suppliers the dod requirements mandating the reporting of breaches to information technology systems containing critical government information. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, it could negatively impact our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations. this could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing this type of problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. in addition, we must conduct diligence and provide disclosure regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which may impact our procurement practices and increase our costs. our international business is subject to geopolitical and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks. our international business exposes us to geopolitical and economic factors, regulatory requirements, increasing competition and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ from and may be greater than those associated with our domestic business. in 2018 , our sales to customers outside the u.s. (including foreign military sales through the u.s. government) accounted for 30% of our total net sales. our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. any significant impairment of our ability to conduct business outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by: (1) changes in threat environments; (2) geopolitical uncertainties; (3) volatility in worldwide economic conditions; and (4) various regional and local economic and political factors, including volatility in energy prices, changes in u.s. foreign policy, and other risks and uncertainties. our international sales are subject to u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including the international traffic in arms regulations (itar), the export administration regulations (ear), the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), and other anti-corruption, sanctions, and export laws and regulations. we maintain policies and controls to comply with such laws and regulations and exercise oversight of such compliance. however, any failure by us or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties including fines, suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our ability to export our products. in addition, due to the nature of our products, we must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before selling our products outside of the u.s. our ability to obtain these licenses and authorizations timely or at all is subject to risks and uncertainties, including changing u.s. government policies or laws or delays in congressional action due to geopolitical and other factors. some of our direct commercial sale contracts with international customers have requirements relating to these licenses and authorizations and may permit the customer to terminate the contract if we fail to receive these approvals in a timely manner. if we are not successful in obtaining or maintaining the necessary licenses or authorizations in a timely manner, our sales relating to those approvals may be reversed, prevented or delayed. we have several direct commercial sales contracts for precision guided munitions with certain middle eastern customers for which u.s. government approvals from the state department and congress through the congressional notification process have been 16 table of contents delayed and which we expect will continue to be delayed in the near future. these contracts contain clauses that permit the customer to terminate the contract, and require refund of any advances received, if those approvals are not received by a stated date or that date is not otherwise changed. we have taken contractual actions, such as changing or removing the government approval deadlines, or invoking the force majeure clauses for government delays. however, if we ultimately do not receive the approvals for these direct commercial sales contracts for precision guided munitions, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. at december 31, 2018 , we had approximately $2.3 billion of total contract value, recognized approximately $1 billion of sales for work performed to date and received approximately $850 million in advances from customers on these contracts. on a contract by contract basis, and excluding advances billed but not received, we had $500 million and $350 million of net contract assets and net contract liabilities, respectively, related to these contracts. in addition, recent events have caused increased attention on u.s. defense sales to the kingdom of saudi arabia (ksa). although we currently do not expect to be prevented from doing business in ksa, which represents nearly 5% of our sales, if government action impairs our ability to fulfill our contractual obligations or otherwise to continue to do business in ksa, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. our international sales are also subject to local government laws, regulations, and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government requirements. these include regulations relating to export-import control, technology transfer, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. further, our international sales contracts may be subject to non-u.s. contract laws and regulations and include contractual terms that differ from those of similar contracts in the u.s. or that may be interpreted differently under foreign laws. delays, cost overruns and product failures, or technological or other difficulties could also affect our ability to perform on our international contracts and negatively affect our profitability. in addition, these contracts may be subject to termination for default based on performance or failure to obtain u.s. government export approvals. these contracts may also be subject to termination at the customer's convenience, and may be subject to funding risks. in connection with our international business, we also operate subsidiaries domiciled in non-u.s. locations that are subject to local government laws and regulations which may differ from u.s. government requirements. in addition, the timing of orders, customer negotiations, governmental approvals and notifications from our international customers can be less predictable than from our domestic customers. this may lead to variations in international bookings and sales each year. we must also manage a certain degree of exposure to the risk of currency fluctuations. we have acted to protect ourselves against various risks through insurance, foreign exchange contracts, contract provisions, government guarantees and/or payment terms. our international sales in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar were approximately $1.4 billion in 2018 , and $1.3 billion in 2017 and 2016 , the majority of which were in british pounds and australian dollars with the remainder primarily in euros and canadian dollars. see total net sales and property, plant and equipment by geographical area set forth in note 16: business segment reporting within item 8 of this form 10-k. our international business faces substantial competition from both u.s. companies and foreign companies. in some instances, foreign companies may be owned by foreign governments or may receive loans, marketing subsidies and other assistance from their governments that may not be available to u.s. companies. in addition, foreign companies may be subject to fewer restrictions on technology transfer than u.s. companies. our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific local purchases, manufacturing agreements, technology transfer agreements or financial support obligations, sometimes in the form of either offset obligations or in-country industrial participation (icip) agreements. approvals of offset or icip thresholds and requirements may be subjective and time-consuming and may delay contract awards. offset requirements may, in certain countries, include the creation of a joint venture with a local company which may control the venture. this could result in liability for violations of law for actions taken by these entities, including laws related to anti-corruption, sanctions, export, or local laws which may differ from u.s. laws and requirements. in addition, the ability to recover investments that we make may be dependent upon the success of ventures that we do not control. such offset obligations are generally multi-year arrangements and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements. in addition, certain customers' demands are increasing for greater offset or icip commitment levels, higher-value content, including the transfer of technologies and capabilities, and local production and economic development. we also are exposed to risks associated with using third-party foreign representatives and consultants for international sales, and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. as a result of the above factors, we could experience financial penalties and award and funding delays on international programs, our profitability on these programs could be negatively affected, 17 table of contents and we could incur losses on these programs which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key technical personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. our continued growth increases the need for qualified personnel. competition for personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel with the requisite skills or security clearances. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive various security clearances and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. necessary security clearances may be delayed, which may impact our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts. further, a significant percentage of our current workforce is nearing or eligible for retirement. to the extent that we lose experienced personnel, it is critical that we develop other employees, hire new qualified personnel and successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge. loss of key employees, failure to attract new qualified employees or adequately train them, delays in receiving required security clearances, or delays in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business. our business could be negatively impacted by cyber attacks, other security breaches and other disruptions. we routinely experience cyber and other security threats including: threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary, sensitive or classified information, and attempts to infiltrate our products and services and sabotage or disable their use by our customers. we also encounter threats to physical security, including our facilities and personnel, and threats from terrorism or similar acts. in addition, our business could be disrupted by natural disasters. as a defense contractor that protects national security information, we are the target of advanced and persistent cyber attacks from a variety of assailants, including nation states, in addition to attacks similar to those encountered in other industries. our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties with whom we do business routinely experience similar security threats. cybersecurity threats include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to access information, online extortion attempts, disruption or denial of service attacks, insider threat attacks, and other cybersecurity events that could lead to disruptions of our systems or unauthorized access to our data. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. in addition, in some cases we must rely on the safeguards put in place by our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties to protect against and report cyber threats. cyber attacks could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential, personal, other protected information (which may belong to us, our employees, or third parties) or national security information, and corruption of data, networks or systems. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures and controls and have invested in significant resources to appropriately identify and monitor these threats and mitigate potential risks, including risks involving our customers and suppliers. however, due to their persistence, sophistication and volume, we may not be successful in preventing or defending against all cyber attacks and preventing or mitigating associated losses. in addition, we provide cybersecurity, defense and other products and services to government and commercial customers, as well as products in which cybersecurity capabilities are embedded. as a result, these products and services are subject to attacks targeting their security, integrity and/or availability. our cybersecurity products and services ultimately may not be able to effectively detect, prevent, or protect against cyber attacks or otherwise mitigate customer losses and other potential consequences of these attacks. in addition, some products and services that we provide to customers, particularly those related to public security, may raise potential liabilities related to privacy and intellectual property. the impact of a future cyber incident cannot be predicted, particularly because these threats evolve quickly, their seriousness and scale vary widely, and national security information or other sensitive government functions may be involved. the impact of other business disruptions, such as those related to our physical security or resulting from natural disasters or other events, is also difficult to predict. further, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all related costs and we may not otherwise be fully indemnified for them. we maintain internal controls and procedures on cybersecurity incident prevention, detection, mitigation, response, recovery and disclosure. however, we may be unsuccessful in detecting, reporting or responding to these events adequately in a timely manner. cyber attacks, security breaches, and other events could disrupt 18 table of contents our operations, or the operations of our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties, and cause harm to facilities or personnel. they could require significant management attention and resources and could result in the loss of business, regulatory actions and potential liability. they could also negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public. any one of these outcomes could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or investigatory finding by the u.s. government. we are subject to audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies including the defense contract audit agency (dcaa), the defense contract management agency (dcma), the inspectors general of the dod and other departments and agencies, the government accountability office (gao), the department of justice (doj) and congressional committees, in large part because we are a government contractor. from time to time, these and other agencies conduct investigations or audits to determine whether our operations are in compliance with applicable requirements. the dcaa and dcma also review the adequacy of and our compliance with our internal control systems and policies, including our accounting, purchasing, property, estimating, earned value management and material management accounting systems. our final allowable incurred costs for each year are subject to audit and have from time to time resulted in disputes between us and the u.s. government. in some cases, the doj has convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities in our costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. an adverse outcome of any audit or investigation could result in civil and criminal penalties and fines which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. in addition, if allegations of impropriety were made against us, we could suffer serious reputational harm which could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. accounting for long-term contracts requires estimates and judgments related to our progress toward completion. significant judgments include potential risks associated with the ability and cost to achieve program schedule, including customer-directed delays or reductions in scheduled deliveries, and technical and other specific contract requirements. due to the size and long-term nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. management must make assumptions and estimates regarding contract revenue and cost (including estimates of award fees and penalties), including with respect to: (1) labor productivity and availability; (2) the complexity of the work to be performed; (3) the availability of materials; (4) the length of time to complete the performance obligation; (5) execution by our subcontractors; (6) the availability and timing of funding from our customer; and (7) overhead cost rates, among other variables. because of the significance of management's judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by contract accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on plan assets (roa), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets and other actuarial factors, could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. we must determine our pension and prb plans' expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term roa and other actuarial assumptions. the discount rate assumption is set annually and we determine on an annual basis whether it is appropriate to change our long-term roa assumption. these assumptions and other actuarial assumptions may change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances. changes in our assumptions could result in negative changes to our pension and prb plans' expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans, which would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term roa assumption would result in a change to our pension and prb plans' expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. they may also be impacted by changes in regulatory, accounting and other requirements applicable to pensions. 19 table of contents for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by pension and prb plan accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. if we fail to manage our acquisitions, investments, divestitures, joint ventures and other transactions successfully, these activities could adversely affect our future financial results. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and other teaming and collaborative arrangements. we undertake to identify opportunities that will complement our existing products and services or customer base, as well as expand our offerings and market reach into new areas that naturally extend from our core capabilities. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. further, these transactions involve certain other risks and uncertainties including: (1) the risks involved with entering new markets; (2) the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and managing or monitoring other collaborative business arrangements; (3) challenges and failures in achieving strategic objectives and other expected benefits which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; (4) unidentified issues not discovered in raytheon's due diligence; (5) the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives; (6) the potential impairment of acquired assets; (7) the performance of underlying products, capabilities or technologies; and (8) the potential loss of key employees and customers of acquired businesses. in addition, future transactions may impact our deployment of capital, including dividends, stock repurchases, pension contributions, and investments. additionally, the joint venture agreement for our forcepoint cybersecurity joint venture company, of which raytheon owns 80.5% and vista equity partners owns 19.5%, provides vista equity partners with certain rights to exit the joint venture, including the right to require raytheon to purchase all of vista equity partners' interest in forcepoint and the right to require forcepoint to pursue an initial public offering, as well as certain other protective rights with respect to the management of forcepoint's business. in addition to the other risks described above, the exercise of any such rights by vista equity partners could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, or the management of our business as a whole. for a more detailed discussion regarding forcepoint, see forcepoint within item 1 of this form 10-k. goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets, and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. at december 31, 2018 , we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $15.5 billion which represented 49% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test annually and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. in the event of an impairment any excess goodwill must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill and intangible assets based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen events that could adversely affect the value of our goodwill or intangible assets and trigger an impairment evaluation. future determinations of significant impairments of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by goodwill accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named, or may in the future be named, as a defendant is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are the defendant in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. in addition, we may be subject to future litigation matters, claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 20 table of contents we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or obtain certain rights in third party intellectual property on reasonable terms, which could affect our ability to compete. our efforts to gain awards of contracts and ensure a competitive position in the market depends in part on our ability to ensure that our intellectual property is protected, that our intellectual property rights are not diluted or subject to misuse, and that we are able to license certain third party intellectual property on reasonable terms. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented inventions, know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government and foreign governments have licenses under certain of our intellectual property, including certain patents, which are developed or used in performance of government contracts. governments may use or authorize others (including our competitors) to use such patents and intellectual property for government and other purposes. governments may challenge the sufficiency of intellectual property rights we have granted in government contracts and attempt to obtain greater rights. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. in addition, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may differ from those of the u.s. further, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights can be costly, and even if successful, can direct our attention from other areas of our business. all of the above could diminish the value of our intellectual property, affecting our ability to procure future business or maximize the use of our intellectual property to increase our revenue. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. intellectual property obtained from third parties is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. in addition, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. in other instances, our ability to procure and perform government contracts requires us to obtain certain rights in the intellectual property of others through government grants. governments may deny us the right to obtain such rights in the intellectual property of others which may affect our ability to perform government contracts. we enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure obligations and agreements with our suppliers, consultants and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. these measures may not adequately protect our proprietary information, deter misappropriation and misuse of our proprietary information, or prevent third-party development of similar technologies, all of which may negatively impact our ability to compete. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, use our intellectual property for a competitive advantage, or continue to access licensed intellectual property of third parties, any of which could have a negative impact on our ability to win and perform on contracts, our reputation, and our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in our operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damage that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to past practices at a number of properties and, in some cases, have in the past been named as a defendant in related toxic tort claims. we are also subject to laws and regulations that: (1) impose requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; (2) restrict air and water emissions from our operations (including u.s. government-owned facilities we manage); and (3) require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can lead to substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions, decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases and/or reduce the risks of injury to people. a criminal violation of certain u.s. environmental statutes such as the clean air act and clean water act could result in suspension, debarment or disqualification by the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa). a facility determined to be in violation of the criminal provisions of these statutes can be prohibited from performing any u.s. government contract work until the violation has been corrected and the epa approves the reinstatement of the facility. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of 21 table of contents previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up standards could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers through contractual provisions, and we may obtain limitations of liability and additional defenses for various reasons including the qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security (dhs) under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002. the amount of the insurance coverage we maintain or indemnification to which we may be contractually or otherwise entitled may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. further, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we generally supplement our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we may enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments, payments to vendors and customer receipts denominated in foreign currencies. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. there were no interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2018 or december 31, 2017 . principal payments and interest rate detail for long-term debt by contractual maturity date as of december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 , respectively, were as follows: december 31, 2018 (in millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ 1,500 $ $ 1,100 $ $ 2,192 $ 4,792 $ 5,063 average interest rate 3.550 % 2.500 % 5.097 % 4.017 % december 31, 2017 (in millions, except percentages) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ 1,500 $ $ 1,100 $ 2,192 $ 4,792 $ 5,293 average interest rate 3.550 % 2.500 % 5.097 % 4.017 % in addition, the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was $1,772 million and $1,354 million at december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 , respectively. the net notional exposure of these contracts was $840 million and $525 million at december 31, 2018 and december 31, 2017 , respectively. the fair value of asset derivatives included in other assets, net and liability derivatives included in other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets related to foreign currency forward contracts were $26 million and $34 million , respectively at december 31, 2018 and $28 million and $17 million , respectively at december 31, 2017 . for foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss (aocl), net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. 73 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects, products and services, trends and anticipated financial performance including with respect to: the timing and expected completion and impact of the proposed merger with united technologies corporation (utc); our revenue; our liquidity and capital resources; our bookings and backlog; our international sales, including our ability to do business in the kingdom of saudi arabia (ksa) and future delays in the congressional notification process and/or other potential challenges related to sales to certain foreign customers; cybersecurity sales; our pension, other postretirement benefit (prb), nonqualified defined benefit and defined contribution plans expense and funding; our recognition of revenue on certain performance obligations; our expectations regarding customer demand and contracts; seasonality of our business; our capital expenditures; our amortization expense; the impact of new accounting pronouncements and tax regulations; our expected tax payments; our unrecognized tax benefits; our reclassifications of gains or losses on cash flow hedges; the impact of acquisitions, investments and other business arrangements and the tax deductibility of goodwill; the impact and outcome of audits and legal and administrative proceedings, claims, investigations, commitments and contingencies; the impact of certain regional developments; delays and disruptions in delivery of materials and services from suppliers; the impact of changes in fair value of our reporting units; delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from turkish suppliers; the impact of changes in foreign currency rates; the impact of brexit; the impact of competition; growth in our cyber business; as well as information regarding domestic and international defense spending, budgets and business practices. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission (sec). given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, or use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, except as required by law. 12 table of contents we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business, and changes in u.s. government defense spending and priorities could impact our financial position, results of operations and overall business. in 2019 , u.s. government sales, excluding foreign military sales, accounted for approximately 69% of our total net sales. our u.s. government revenues largely result from contracts awarded under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the u.s. department of defense (dod), and a broad range of programs with the u.s. intelligence community and other departments and agencies. our programs are subject to u.s. government policies, budget decisions and appropriation processes which are driven by numerous factors including: (1) geopolitical events; (2) macroeconomic conditions; and (3) the ability of the u.s. government to enact relevant legislation, such as appropriations bills. in recent years, u.s. government appropriations have been affected by larger u.s. government budgetary issues and related legislation. the budget control act of 2011 (bca) established specific limits on annual appropriations for fiscal years (fy) 2012 2021, but was amended a number of times leading to fluctuations and unpredictability in annual dod funding levels. as compared to the relevant preceding year, the dod budget fell in fy 2013, remained essentially flat for fy 2014 and 2015, and increased each year from fy 2016 to 2020. bca caps were raised for fy 2021 from their original level, and fy 2021 dod funding is expected to be similar to fy 2020. further, the dod budget requires the agreement and action of both congress and the president. in addition, in previous years the u.s. government has been unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, resulting in both governmental shut-downs and continuing resolutions (crs) providing only enough funds for u.s. government agencies to continue operating at prior year levels. further, if the u.s. government debt ceiling is not raised and the national debt reaches the statutory debt ceiling, the u.s. government could default on its debts. as a result, u.s. government defense spending levels are subject to a wide range of outcomes and are difficult to predict beyond the near-term due to numerous factors, including the external threat environment, future governmental priorities and the state of governmental finances. significant changes in u.s. government defense spending or changes in u.s. government priorities, policies and requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our financial results largely are dependent on our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts, which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and timing, as well as termination. our financial results could also be affected by performance delays, cost overruns, product failures, materials or components shortages, or definitization delays in connection with these contracts, as well as by the mix of our contracts and programs. our financial results largely are dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. although we have thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more of our contracts, or the occurrence of performance delays, cost overruns, product failures, materials or components shortages, or contract definitization delays could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. u.s. government contracts generally permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the u.s. government's convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for work accepted by the u.s. government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. in addition, we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor on some contracts. in these arrangements, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, without regard to our performance as a subcontractor. further, we can give no assurance that we would be awarded new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of the termination of any of our contracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations, which are made on a fiscal year basis even for multi-year programs. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and may not continue to be funded in future years. in addition, regular appropriation bills may be delayed, which may result in delays to funding, the collection of receivables and our contract performance due to lack of authorized funds to procure related products and services. under certain circumstances, we may use our own funds to meet our customer's desired delivery dates or other requirements but we may not be reimbursed. further, if appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, reduced or delayed, the u.s. government may terminate for convenience our contract or subcontract under that program. 13 table of contents our u.s. government contracts typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven and in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns or product failures and could divert our attention or resources from other projects. with the u.s. government's greater focus on new technologies, such as interceptors, space-based sensors, high-energy lasers, hypersonics, and counter-hypersonics, we have more development programs. our failure to execute effectively on these programs could impact our future sales opportunities. additionally, in order to win certain u.s. government contracts, we may be required to invest in development prior to award as our customers demand more mature and proven solutions. these additional investment amounts may not be worthwhile if we are not chosen for new contract awards. our u.s. government contracts are typically either fixed-priced contracts or cost reimbursement contracts. fixed-price contracts represent approximately 65% of our backlog, and are predominantly either firm fixed-price (ffp) contracts or fixed-price incentive (fpi) contracts. under ffp contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and we therefore carry the burden of any cost overruns. under fpi contracts, we share with the u.s. government savings for cost underruns less than target costs and expenses for cost overruns exceeding target costs up to a negotiated cost ceiling. we carry the entire burden of cost overruns exceeding the cost ceiling amount under fpi contracts. under cost reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fixed or performance-based fee, but we are generally not reimbursed for unauthorized costs exceeding a cost ceiling amount or costs not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations. contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges are typically cost reimbursable, but can be ffp or fpi. in addition, other contracts in backlog are for the transition from development to production, which includes starting and stabilizing a manufacturing and test line while the final design is still being validated. over the past several years, the dod has increased its use of other transaction authority (ota) contracts, under which it awards research and development work without all of the procurement requirements that typically apply to dod contracts, including justification of sole source awards. otas may use fixed-price contracts during all phases of the contract, or mandated contract cost sharing (e.g., one-third of program costs). they may also require non-traditional subcontractor participation and impose other requirements that differ from our other dod contracts. for example, we were awarded an ota contract for the lower tier air and missile defense sensor (ltamds) in late 2019. if we are unable to perform on our ota contracts, including any applicable non-traditional requirements, it could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. due to the nature of our work under many of our u.s. government contracts, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, our profitability could be negatively affected, particularly under fixed-price development contracts. we may also experience cost underruns which would reduce contract value and related expected revenues, and we may be unable to expand the contract scope or secure additional work to offset the resulting lost revenues. some of our u.s. government contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts it could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our contracts also require us to comply with extensive and evolving procurement rules and regulations, which are discussed in more detail below. from time to time, we may begin performance under an undefinitized contract award with a not-to-exceed price prior to completing contract negotiations in order to support u.s. government priorities. uncertainties in final contract price, specifications and terms, or loss of negotiating leverage associated with particularly long delays in contract definitization, may negatively affect our profitability. in addition, we are involved in programs that are classified by the u.s. government which have security requirements that place limits on our ability to discuss our performance on these programs, including any risks, disputes and claims. 14 table of contents our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to continue achievement of our growth strategy, we must successfully develop new offerings and technologies or adapt existing offerings and technologies for our current and future markets including new international, civil, and commercial markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability in current, emerging and future growth markets to: identify market needs and growth opportunities; identify emerging technological and other trends; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs; develop and maintain competitive products and services at competitive prices; enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; develop, manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; enhance product designs for export and releasability to international markets; and effectively structure our businesses to reflect the competitive environment including through the use of joint ventures, collaborative agreements and other forms of alliances. we believe that in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new, and adapt existing, offerings and technologies. we fund this investment through customer funded and internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. we believe this investment is needed to meet demands and expand in our domestic and international markets, including emerging opportunities within the dod market and the commercial cybersecurity market in which our forcepoint business segment competes. our investments to develop new offerings and technologies, or adapt existing offerings and technologies, could divert our attention and resources from other projects. in addition, we cannot be sure that these investments will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies or identification of and expansion into new or growth markets. due to the design complexity of our products, we may experience future delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. these risks are heightened by recent increases in new development programs. further, our competitors may develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. in addition, there can be no assurance that: (1) the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand; (2) we will be successful in newly identified markets as we currently anticipate; or (3) the acquisitions, joint ventures or other teaming arrangements we may enter into in pursuit of developing new offerings and technologies will be successful. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. our existing technology and offerings may become obsolete due to new competitive technology or offerings. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance faster than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share and limit our future market opportunities. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. we anticipate companies continuing to enhance their competitive position against us in our core markets as a result of continued domestic and cross-border defense industry consolidation and the expansion of competitors' capabilities throughout the supply chain through vertical integration. we are also facing heightened competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, u.s. defense spending and u.s. government procurement strategies may limit our future market opportunities. for example, the dod continues to award contracts through competitive bidding. highly competitive pricing, in which a bidder may anticipate making a substantial investment in a program in order to win the work, has been seen in certain cases. in addition, bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards are more frequent. generally, a bid protest will delay the start of contract activities, delay earnings, and could result in the award decision being overturned and require a re-bid of the contract. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. 15 table of contents in addition, the u.s. government has been awarding more development programs due to changing u.s. government priorities. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors in our core markets, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. in addition, our forcepoint cybersecurity business segment faces significant competition due to rapid changes in technology, products, customer specifications and industry standards. it also has a wide range of market competitors, some that are significantly larger with broader product and service offerings or have best-of-breed products and/or maintain stronger customer relationships. in order to compete effectively, forcepoint must successfully execute on its growth strategy, including the development of new products and services. if forcepoint is unable to compete successfully, it may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise benefit our other operations. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to extensive procurement rules and regulations. changes in rules, regulations and business practices could negatively affect current programs and potential awards. our business could be negatively affected if we fail to comply with any procurement rules and regulations. as a u.s. government contractor, we must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements including: (1) export-import control; (2) security; (3) contract pricing and cost; (4) contract termination and adjustment; and (5) audit and product integrity requirements. these requirements impact our performance and compliance costs. in addition, the u.s. government has and may continue to implement initiatives focused on efficiencies, affordability and cost growth and other changes to its procurement practices which may negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. this could also affect whether we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to pursue them. for example, in recent years the dod has increasingly included contractual payment and cost reimbursement terms such as incentive-based contracts that require contractors to share cost overruns and underruns with the u.s. government. in addition, failure to comply with procurement regulations and requirements could result in: (1) reductions in contract value; (2) contract modifications or termination; (3) cash withholds on contract payments; (4) forfeiture of profits; and (5) the assessment of civil and criminal penalties and fines. any of these could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from u.s. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to: (1) procurement integrity; (2) export control; (3) u.s. government security regulations; (4) employment practices; (5) protection of the environment; (6) accuracy of records and the recording of costs; and (7) foreign corruption. penalties or sanctions resulting from any failure to comply with applicable requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. this could also have a negative impact on our reputation, lead to contract terminations and reduce our ability to procure other u.s. government contracts in the future. issues with component availability, subcontractor performance or key supplier performance may affect our ability to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we depend on our suppliers delivering materials, and on our subcontractors assembling major components and subsystems for our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. we are subject to specific procurement requirements that limit the types of materials we use which may limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. these procurement rules include requirements for genuine original equipment manufacturer parts. as we continue to seek further cost efficiencies throughout our business, we may centralize procurements in order to attain better pricing through strategic sourcing, which may increase our dependency on certain suppliers. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. in recent years, our supplier pool has become further limited in some areas due to consolidation and supplier business closures. in addition, our suppliers may experience materials or components shortages. in recent times, the industry has experienced shortages of certain microelectronic components. tariffs currently imposed on certain materials and other trade issues may create or exacerbate existing materials shortages and drive-up material prices. these developments may also result in further supplier business closures. some products require relatively scarce raw materials, including some which are largely controlled by a single country, and the ability to source those materials is dependent on u.s. relations with the country. materials or 16 table of contents components sourced from a particular country may become subject to sanctions or other bans imposed by the united states or other countries. in addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors may be susceptible to changes in global economic conditions that could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. if certain component materials are not available or if any of our suppliers or subcontractors otherwise fails to meet our needs or becomes insolvent, we may not have readily available alternatives or alternatives at prices that meet the demands of our customers. we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions, such as accelerating supplier payments commensurate with value delivered, to ensure the financial viability of our suppliers and the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems. however, we cannot be sure that such items will be available at all or in the needed quantities. in addition, we require our suppliers to deliver components and services that are free from viruses and malicious code that may damage or destroy such components and interrupt such services, and include in our contracts with our suppliers the dod requirements mandating the reporting of breaches to information technology systems containing critical government information. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, it could negatively impact our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations. this could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing this type of problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. in addition, we must conduct diligence and provide disclosure regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which may impact our procurement practices and increase our costs. our international business is subject to geopolitical and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks. our international business exposes us to geopolitical and economic factors, regulatory requirements, increasing competition and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers. these risks differ from and may be greater than those associated with our domestic business. in 2019 , our sales to customers outside the u.s. (including foreign military sales through the u.s. government) accounted for 29% of our total net sales. our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. any significant impairment of our ability to conduct business outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by: (1) changes in threat environments; (2) geopolitical uncertainties; (3) volatility in worldwide economic conditions; and (4) various regional and local economic and political factors, including volatility in energy prices, changes in u.s. foreign policy, changes in existing free trade laws and regulations and other risks and uncertainties. our international sales are subject to u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including the international traffic in arms regulations (itar), the export administration regulations (ear), the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), and other anti-corruption, sanctions, and export laws and regulations. any failure by us or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties including fines, suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our ability to export our products. in addition, due to the nature of our products, we must obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before selling our products outside of the u.s. our ability to obtain these licenses and authorizations timely or at all is subject to risks and uncertainties, including changing u.s. government policies or laws or delays in congressional action due to geopolitical and other factors. some of our direct commercial sale contracts with international customers have requirements relating to these licenses and authorizations and may permit the customer to terminate the contract if we fail to receive these approvals in a timely manner. if we are not successful in obtaining or maintaining the necessary licenses or authorizations in a timely manner, our sales relating to those approvals may be reversed, prevented or delayed. in the recent past, we had several direct commercial sales contracts for precision guided munitions with certain middle eastern customers for which u.s. government approvals had been delayed until the administration directly approved these sales. at december 31, 2019, we had pending $1.2 billion of total contract value of these contracts that require u.s. government approvals. additionally, one of those contracts, which has a contract value of $835 million , also requires u.k. government approval. in addition, new sales to these customers may face similar delays and/or potential challenges given the geopolitical issues. certain events have caused increased attention on u.s. defense sales to the kingdom of saudi arabia (ksa). although we currently do not expect to be prevented from doing business in ksa, which represents less than 5% of our sales, if government 17 table of contents action impairs our ability to fulfill our contractual obligations or otherwise to continue to do business in ksa, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. our international sales are also subject to local government laws, regulations, and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government requirements. these include regulations relating to export-import control, technology transfer, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. further, our international sales contracts may be subject to non-u.s. contract laws and regulations and include contractual terms that differ from those of similar contracts in the u.s. or that may be interpreted differently under foreign laws. delays, cost overruns and product failures, or technological or other difficulties could also affect our ability to perform on our international contracts and negatively affect our profitability. in addition, these contracts may be subject to termination for default based on performance or failure to obtain u.s. government export approvals. these contracts may also be subject to termination at the customer's convenience, and may be subject to funding risks. in connection with our international business, we also operate subsidiaries domiciled in non-u.s. locations that are subject to local government laws and regulations which may differ from u.s. government requirements. in addition, the timing of orders, customer negotiations, governmental approvals and notifications from our international customers can be less predictable than from our domestic customers. this may lead to variations in international bookings and sales each year. we must also manage a certain degree of exposure to the risk of currency fluctuations. our international sales in functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar were approximately $1.4 billion in both 2019 and 2018 and $1.3 billion in 2017 , the majority of which were in british pounds and australian dollars with the remainder primarily in euros and canadian dollars. see note 16: business segment reporting within item 8 of this form 10-k for total net sales and property, plant and equipment by geographical area. our international business faces substantial competition from both u.s. companies and foreign companies. in some instances, foreign companies may be owned by foreign governments or may receive loans, marketing subsidies and other assistance from their governments that may not be available to u.s. companies. in addition, foreign companies may be subject to fewer restrictions on technology transfer than u.s. companies. our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific local purchases, manufacturing agreements, technology transfer agreements or financial support obligations, sometimes in the form of either offset obligations or in-country industrial participation (icip) agreements. approvals of offset or icip thresholds and requirements may be subjective and time-consuming and may delay contract awards. offset requirements may, in certain countries, include the creation of a joint venture with a local company which may control the venture. this could result in liability for violations of law for actions taken by these entities, including laws related to anti-corruption, sanctions, export, or local laws which may differ from u.s. laws and requirements. in addition, the ability to recover investments that we make may be dependent upon the success of ventures that we do not control. such offset obligations are generally multi-year arrangements and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements. in addition, certain customers' demands are increasing for greater offset or icip commitment levels, higher-value content, including the transfer of technologies and capabilities, and local production and economic development. we also are exposed to risks associated with using third-party foreign representatives and consultants for international sales, and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. as a result of the above factors, we could experience financial penalties and award and funding delays on international programs, our profitability on these programs could be negatively affected, and we could incur losses on these programs which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract, train and retain such personnel and to maintain our corporate culture and high ethical standards could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key technical personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. our continued growth increases the need for qualified personnel. competition for personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting, training or retaining qualified personnel with the requisite skills or security clearances. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive various security clearances and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. necessary security clearances may be delayed, which may impact our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts. further, a significant percentage of our current workforce is nearing or eligible for retirement. to the extent that we lose experienced personnel, it is critical that we develop other employees, hire new qualified personnel and successfully 18 table of contents manage the transfer of critical knowledge. we face competition in attracting new qualified personnel, especially in a low unemployment environment. in addition, new qualified personnel may have different expectations from our current workforce, which could result in difficulties attracting and retaining new employees. loss of key employees, failure to attract new qualified employees or adequately train them, delays in receiving required security clearances, or delays in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business. we believe that a critical component of our ability to successfully attract, train and retain qualified personnel has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, collaboration and a focus on execution, all in an environment of high ethical standards. our global operations may present challenges in maintaining these important aspects of our corporate culture. any failure to maintain our corporate culture could negatively impact our ability to attract, train and retain essential qualified personnel who are vital to our business. further, we rely on our key personnel to lead with integrity and to meet our high ethical standards. to the extent any of our leaders were to behave in a way that is inconsistent with our values, we could experience a materially adverse impact to our reputation and our operating results. our business could be negatively impacted by cyber attacks, other security breaches and other disruptions. we routinely experience cyber and other security threats including: threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary, sensitive or classified information, and attempts to infiltrate our products and services and sabotage or disable their use by our customers. we also encounter threats to our physical security, including our facilities and personnel, and threats from terrorism or similar acts. in addition, our business could be disrupted by natural disasters, including the impacts of climate change. as a defense contractor that protects national security information, we are the target of advanced and persistent cyber attacks from a variety of assailants, including nation states, in addition to attacks similar to those encountered in other industries. our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties with whom we do business routinely experience similar security threats. cybersecurity threats include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to access information, online extortion attempts, disruption or denial of service attacks, insider threat attacks, and other cybersecurity events that could lead to disruptions of our systems or unauthorized access to our data. our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. in addition, in some cases we must rely on the safeguards put in place by our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties to protect against and report cyber threats. cyber attacks could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential, personal, other protected information (which may belong to us, our employees, or third parties) or national security information, and corruption of data, networks or systems. we believe we have implemented appropriate measures and controls and have invested in significant resources to appropriately identify and monitor these threats and mitigate potential risks, including risks involving our customers and suppliers. however, due to their persistence, sophistication and volume, we may not be successful in preventing or defending against all cyber attacks and preventing or mitigating associated losses. in addition, because cybersecurity and related data privacy and protection laws and regulations are evolving and present increasing compliance challenges, our compliance costs could increase. in addition, we provide cybersecurity, defense and other products and services to government and commercial customers, as well as products in which cybersecurity capabilities are embedded. as a result, these products and services are subject to attacks targeting their security, integrity and/or availability. our cybersecurity products and services ultimately may not be able to effectively detect, prevent, or protect against cyber attacks or otherwise mitigate customer losses and other potential consequences of these attacks. in addition, some products and services that we provide to customers, particularly those related to public security, may raise potential liabilities related to privacy and intellectual property. the impact of a future cyber incident cannot be predicted, particularly because these threats evolve quickly, their seriousness and scale vary widely, and national security information or other sensitive government functions may be involved. the impact of other business disruptions, such as those related to our physical security or resulting from natural disasters or other events, is also difficult to predict. further, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all related costs and we may not otherwise be fully indemnified for them. we maintain internal controls and procedures on cybersecurity incident prevention, detection, mitigation, response, recovery and disclosure. however, we may be unsuccessful in detecting, reporting or responding to these events adequately in a timely manner. cyber attacks, security breaches, and other events could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and other third parties, and cause harm to facilities or personnel. they could require significant management attention and resources and could result in the loss of business, 19 table of contents regulatory actions and potential liability. they could also negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public. any one of these outcomes could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or investigatory finding by the u.s. government. we are subject to audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies including the defense contract audit agency (dcaa), the defense contract management agency (dcma), the inspectors general of the dod and other departments and agencies, the government accountability office (gao), the department of justice (doj) and congressional committees, in large part because we are a government contractor. from time to time, these and other agencies conduct investigations or audits to determine whether our operations are in compliance with applicable requirements. the dcaa and dcma also review the adequacy of and our compliance with our internal control systems and policies, including our accounting, purchasing, property, estimating, earned value management and material management accounting systems. our final allowable incurred costs for each year are subject to audit and have from time to time resulted in disputes between us and the u.s. government. in some cases, the doj has convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities in our costs. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. an adverse outcome of any audit or investigation could result in civil and criminal penalties and fines which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. in addition, if allegations of impropriety were made against us, we could suffer serious reputational harm which could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. accounting for long-term contracts requires estimates and judgments related to our progress toward completion. significant judgments include potential risks associated with the ability and cost to achieve program schedule, including customer-directed delays or reductions in scheduled deliveries, and technical and other specific contract requirements. due to the size and long-term nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. management must make assumptions and estimates regarding contract revenue and cost (including estimates of award fees and penalties), including with respect to: (1) labor productivity and availability; (2) the complexity of the work to be performed; (3) the availability of materials; (4) the length of time to complete the performance obligation; (5) execution by our subcontractors; (6) the availability and timing of funding from our customer; and (7) overhead cost rates, among other variables. because of the significance of management's judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by contract accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on plan assets (roa), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets and other actuarial factors, could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. we must determine our pension and prb plans' expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term roa and other actuarial assumptions. the discount rate assumption is set annually and we determine on an annual basis whether it is appropriate to change our long-term roa assumption. these assumptions and other actuarial assumptions may change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances. changes in our assumptions could result in negative changes to our pension and prb plans' expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans, which would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term roa assumption would result in a change to our pension and prb plans' expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. they may also be impacted by changes in regulatory, accounting and other requirements applicable to pensions. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by pension and prb plan accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. 20 table of contents if we fail to manage our acquisitions, investments, divestitures, joint ventures and other transactions successfully, these activities could adversely affect our future financial results. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and other teaming and collaborative arrangements. we undertake to identify opportunities that will complement our existing products and services or customer base, as well as expand our offerings and market reach into new areas that naturally extend from our core capabilities. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. further, these transactions involve certain other risks and uncertainties including: (1) the risks involved with entering new markets; (2) the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and managing or monitoring other collaborative business arrangements; (3) challenges and failures in achieving strategic objectives and other expected benefits which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; (4) unidentified issues not discovered in raytheon's due diligence; (5) the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives; (6) the potential impairment of acquired assets; (7) the performance of underlying products, capabilities or technologies; and (8) the potential loss of key employees and customers of acquired businesses. in addition, future transactions may impact our deployment of capital, including dividends, stock repurchases, pension contributions, and investments. goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets, and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. at december 31, 2019 , we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $15.4 billion which represented 45% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test annually and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. in the event of an impairment any excess goodwill must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill and intangible assets based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen events that could adversely affect the value of our goodwill or intangible assets and trigger an impairment evaluation. future determinations of significant impairments of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. for a detailed discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by goodwill accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates within item 7 of this form 10-k. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named, or may in the future be named, as a defendant is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are the defendant in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. in addition, we may be subject to future litigation matters, claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or obtain certain rights in third party intellectual property on reasonable terms, which could affect our ability to compete. our efforts to gain awards of contracts and ensure a competitive position in the market depends in part on our ability to ensure that our intellectual property is protected, that our intellectual property rights are not diluted or subject to misuse, and that we are able to license certain third party intellectual property on reasonable terms. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented inventions, know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government and foreign governments have licenses under certain of our intellectual property, including certain patents, which are developed or used in performance of government contracts. governments may use or authorize others (including our competitors) to use such patents and intellectual property for government and other purposes. governments may challenge the sufficiency of intellectual property rights we have granted in government contracts and attempt to obtain greater rights, which could reduce our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and to compete. there can be no assurance that any 21 table of contents of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. in addition, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may differ from those of the u.s. further, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights can be costly, and even if successful, can distract our attention from other areas of our business. all of the above could diminish the value of our intellectual property, affecting our ability to procure future business or maximize the use of our intellectual property to increase our revenue. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. intellectual property obtained from third parties is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation or circumvention by third parties. in addition, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. in other instances, our ability to procure and perform government contracts requires us to obtain certain rights in the intellectual property of others through government grants. governments may deny us the right to obtain such rights in the intellectual property of others which may affect our ability to perform government contracts. the confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements we enter into with our employees and non-disclosure obligations and agreements we enter into with our suppliers, consultants and appropriate customers may not adequately protect our proprietary information, deter misappropriation and misuse of our proprietary information, or prevent third-party development of similar technologies, all of which may negatively impact our ability to compete. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, use our intellectual property for a competitive advantage, or continue to access licensed intellectual property of third parties, any of which could have a negative impact on our ability to win and perform on contracts, our reputation, and our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in our operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damage that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to past practices at a number of properties and, in some cases, have in the past been named as a defendant in related toxic tort claims. we are also subject to laws and regulations that: (1) impose requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; (2) restrict air and water emissions from our operations (including u.s. government-owned facilities we manage); and (3) require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can lead to substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions, decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases and/or reduce the risks of injury to people. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and other expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. a criminal violation of certain u.s. environmental statutes such as the clean air act and clean water act could result in suspension, debarment or disqualification by the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa). a facility determined to be in violation of the criminal provisions of these statutes can be prohibited from performing any u.s. government contract work until the violation has been corrected and the epa approves the reinstatement of the facility. in addition, new laws, regulations, or governmental policies, sudden changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new clean-up standards could require us to incur additional costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers through contractual provisions, and we may obtain limitations of liability and additional defenses for various reasons including the qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security (dhs) under the safety 22 table of contents act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002. the amount of the insurance coverage we maintain or indemnification to which we may be contractually or otherwise entitled may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. any accident, failure of, or defect in our products and services, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. it could also affect the cost and availability of available insurance in the future. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. further, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. risks related to the proposed merger with utc the merger is subject to conditions, some or all of which may not be satisfied, or completed on a timely basis, if at all. failure to complete the merger could have material adverse effects on raytheon. the completion of the merger is subject to a number of conditions, including, among other things, the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, the receipt of an internal revenue service (irs) private letter ruling regarding certain tax matters and certain tax-related opinions and solvency opinions from outside legal counsel, the completion by utc of the separation and the distributions, and a certain amount of net indebtedness of utc following the separation and the distributions (utc remainco), which make the completion and timing of the merger uncertain. the failure to satisfy all of the required conditions could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring at all. there can be no assurance that the conditions to the completion of the merger will be satisfied or waived or that the merger will be completed. if the merger is not completed, raytheon may be materially adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the merger, will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: the market price of raytheon common stock could decline; raytheon could owe a substantial termination fee to utc in specified circumstances; if the merger agreement is terminated and the raytheon board of directors seeks another business combination, raytheon stockholders cannot be certain that raytheon will be able to find a party willing to enter into a transaction on terms equivalent to or more attractive than the terms that utc has agreed to in the merger agreement; time and resources, financial and other, committed by raytheon's management to matters relating to the merger could otherwise have been devoted to pursuing other beneficial opportunities; raytheon may experience negative reactions from the financial markets or from its customers, suppliers or employees; and raytheon will be required to pay its costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory and printing fees, whether or not the merger is completed. in addition, if the merger is not completed, raytheon could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against raytheon to perform its obligations under the merger agreement. any of these risks could materially and adversely impact raytheon's ongoing business, financial condition, financial results and stock price. similarly, delays in the completion of the merger could, among other things, result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other negative effects associated with delay and uncertainty about completion of the merger, and could materially 23 table of contents and adversely impact the ongoing business, financial condition, financial results and stock price of raytheon prior to the merger and utc following completion of the merger (the combined company). the merger is subject to the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods and the receipt of approvals, consents or clearances from several regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on raytheon or the combined company or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the merger. before the merger may be completed, any applicable waiting period (and any extension thereof) under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended (hsr act) relating to the completion of the merger must have expired or been terminated and any authorization or consent from a governmental authority required to be obtained with respect to the merger under certain other applicable foreign regulatory laws must have been obtained. in deciding whether to grant the required regulatory authorization or consent, the relevant governmental entities will consider the effect of the merger within their relevant jurisdiction, including, among other things, the impact on the parties' respective customers and suppliers and the applicable defense ministry and the impact of the parties' foreign investment in the jurisdiction. the terms and conditions of the authorizations and consents that are granted, if any, may impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company's business or may materially delay the completion of the merger. under the merger agreement, utc and raytheon have agreed to use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain such authorizations and consents, and each of utc and raytheon has agreed to take any and all steps necessary to avoid or eliminate impediments under any antitrust laws that may be asserted by any governmental authority so as to enable the completion of the merger as promptly as practicable. however, utc's and raytheon's obligations to take such actions are subject to limitations, including that neither utc nor raytheon will be required to commit to or effect any sale, divestiture, lease, holding separate pending a sale or other transfer or disposal, or certain other restrictions or actions if such actions, in the aggregate would or would reasonably be expected to have a materially adverse impact on raytheon, utc or their respective subsidiaries or affiliates, in each case measured on a scale relative to the size of the combined company. in addition, at any time before or after the completion of the merger, and notwithstanding the termination of applicable waiting periods, the applicable u.s. or foreign regulatory authorities or any state attorney general could take such action under antitrust or applicable foreign investment laws as such party deems necessary or desirable in the public interest. such action could include, among other things, seeking to enjoin the completion of the merger or seeking divestiture of substantial assets of the parties. in addition, in some circumstances, a third party could initiate a private action challenging, seeking to enjoin, or seeking to impose conditions on the merger. utc and raytheon may not prevail and may incur significant costs in defending or settling any such action. there can be no assurance that the conditions to the completion of the merger set forth in the merger agreement relating to applicable regulatory laws will be satisfied. the exchange ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either utc's or raytheon's stock price; there is no (and will not be until the completion of the distributions) trading history with respect to the shares of the utc aerospace businesses on a standalone basis after giving effect to the separation and the distributions. upon completion of the merger, each issued and outstanding share of raytheon common stock (other than excluded shares) will be converted into the right to receive the merger consideration, which is equal to 2.3348 fully paid and nonassessable shares of utc common stock (and, if applicable, cash in lieu of fractional shares). this exchange ratio was fixed in the merger agreement and will not be adjusted for changes in the market price of either utc common stock or raytheon common stock. as of the date of this filing, it is impossible to accurately predict the market price of utc common stock at the completion of the merger (including as a result of, among other things, the separation and the distributions), and therefore, impossible to accurately predict the market value of the shares of utc common stock that raytheon stockholders will receive in the merger. there is no (and will not be until the completion of the distributions) trading history with respect to the shares of the utc aerospace businesses on a standalone basis after giving effect to the separation and the distributions. the market price for utc common stock may fluctuate both prior to the completion of the merger and thereafter for a variety of reasons, including, among others, general market and economic conditions, the demand for utc's or raytheon's products and services, the separation and the distributions, changes in laws and regulations, other changes in utc's and raytheon's respective businesses, operations, prospects and financial results of operations, market assessments of the likelihood that the merger will 24 table of contents be completed, and the expected timing of the merger. many of these factors are beyond utc's and raytheon's control. as a result, the market value represented by the exchange ratio will also vary. as a result of the distributions, we expect the market price of shares of utc common stock to decline because the market price will no longer include the value of the otis business or the carrier business. the value of utc common stock that raytheon stockholders will receive in the merger will reflect the combination of the utc aerospace businesses and raytheon and will not include the value of the otis business or the carrier business as the market price of utc common stock currently does. we cannot predict the amount of this decline, as the market price of shares of utc common stock may fluctuate based on the perceived values of the common stock of utc, the otis business and the carrier business in anticipation of the distributions and the merger, and it may not be possible to estimate the market value of utc common stock. in addition, there is no (and will not be until the completion of the distributions) trading history with respect to the shares of the utc aerospace businesses on a standalone basis after giving effect to the separation and distributions. therefore, current and historical market prices of utc common stock are not reflective of the value that raytheon stockholders will receive in the merger. each party is subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending, which could adversely affect raytheon's, and, following completion of the merger, the combined company's business and operations. in connection with the pendency of the merger, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom utc and/or raytheon has a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationships with utc or raytheon, as the case may be, as a result of the merger or otherwise, which could negatively affect utc's or raytheon's respective revenues, earnings and/or cash flows, as well as the market price of utc common stock or raytheon common stock, regardless of whether the merger is completed. under the terms of the merger agreement, each of utc and raytheon is subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of its business prior to completing the merger that may adversely affect its ability to execute certain of its business strategies, including the ability in certain cases to enter into or amend contracts, acquire or dispose of assets, incur indebtedness, pay dividends, incur capital expenditures or settle claims. such limitations could adversely affect each of utc's and raytheon's business and operations prior to the completion of the merger. each of the risks described above may be exacerbated by delays or other adverse developments with respect to the completion of the merger. completion of the merger may trigger change in control or other provisions in certain customer and other agreements to which utc or raytheon is a party, which may have an adverse impact on the combined company's business and results of operations following completion of the merger. the completion of the merger may trigger change in control and other provisions in certain agreements to which utc or raytheon is a party. if utc or raytheon is unable to negotiate waivers of those provisions, counterparties may exercise their rights and remedies under the agreements, including terminating the agreements or seeking monetary damages or equitable remedies. even if utc and raytheon are able to negotiate consents or waivers, the counterparties may require a fee for such waivers or seek to renegotiate the agreements on terms less favorable to utc or raytheon. any of the foregoing or similar developments may have an adverse impact on the combined company's business and results of operations following completion of the merger. uncertainties associated with the merger may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees, which could adversely affect the future business and operations of the combined company following completion of the merger. utc and raytheon are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of their officers and other key employees to execute their business plans. the combined company's success after the completion of the merger will depend in part upon the ability of the combined company to retain certain key management personnel and employees of utc and raytheon. prior to the completion of the merger (as well as the separations and the distributions), current and prospective employees of utc and raytheon may experience uncertainty about their roles following the completion of the transactions, which may have an adverse effect on the ability of each of utc and raytheon to attract or retain key management and other key personnel. furthermore, utc expects certain key members of its current management will become employees of the entities holding the 25 table of contents otis business and the carrier business and therefore such persons will no longer be employed by utc. in addition, no assurance can be given that the combined company, after the completion of the merger, will be able to attract or retain key management personnel and other key employees to the same extent that utc and raytheon have previously been able to attract or retain their own employees. if either of the distributions, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of utc (including pursuant to the merger), the combined company could be subject to significant tax liabilities. it is a condition to the distributions and the merger that utc receive (1) a private letter ruling from the irs regarding certain u.s. federal income tax matters relating to the separation and the distributions and (2) an opinion of outside counsel regarding the qualification of certain elements of each of the distributions under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code). further, it is a condition to each of utc's and raytheon's obligations to complete the merger that each of utc and raytheon receive an opinion of its respective outside counsel to the effect that (a) the merger will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code and (b) the merger will not cause section 355(e) of the code to apply to either of the distributions. notwithstanding receipt of the irs private letter ruling and the opinions of counsel regarding the distributions, the irs could determine that the distributions and/or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings upon which the irs private letter ruling or the opinions of counsel was based are inaccurate or have not been complied with. in addition, the irs private letter ruling will not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether each of the distributions, together with certain related transactions, qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. accordingly, notwithstanding receipt by utc of the irs private letter ruling and receipt by utc and raytheon of opinions of counsel, there can be no assurance that the irs will not assert that the distributions and/or certain related transactions do not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes (including by reason of the merger) or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. in the event the irs were to prevail with such challenge, the combined company could be subject to significant u.s. federal income tax liability. risks related to the combined company following the merger, the composition of the board of directors of the combined company will be different than the composition of the current raytheon board of directors. the raytheon board of directors currently consists of 13 directors. upon completion of the merger, the board of directors of the combined company will consist of 15 directors, including seven independent directors designated by utc, six independent directors designated by raytheon and the chief executive officer and the executive chairman of the combined company. the combined company may be unable to successfully integrate the utc aerospace businesses and raytheon and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. the success of the merger will depend, in part, on the combined company's ability to successfully combine and integrate the utc aerospace businesses and raytheon, and realize the anticipated benefits, including synergies, cost savings, innovation and technological opportunities and operational efficiencies from the merger in a manner that does not materially disrupt existing customer, supplier and employee relations and does not result in decreased revenues due to losses of, or decreases in orders by, customers. if the combined company is unable to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of the combined company common stock may decline. the combined company may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger if the integration process takes longer than expected or is more costly than expected. the integration of the two companies may result in material challenges, including, without limitation: managing a larger, more complex combined aerospace and defense business; maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees; 26 table of contents retaining existing business and operational relationships, including customers, suppliers and employees and other counterparties, as may be impacted by contracts containing consent and/or other provisions that may be triggered by the merger, and attracting new business and operational relationships; the diversion of management's attention as a result of the devoting attention to the merger, and/or the separation and the distributions; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations, including unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; coordinating geographically separate organizations; and unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the merger, including the separation and the distributions. many of these factors will be outside of utc's and/or raytheon's control, and any one of them could result in delays, increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially affect the combined company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, utc completed its merger with rockwell collins on november 26, 2018, and the integration of the utc aerospace businesses and rockwell collins remains in process. this ongoing integration may increase the complexity of, and challenges associated with, the integration of the utc aerospace businesses and raytheon, which may make it more difficult for utc and raytheon to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger fully or at all, or within the anticipated time frame. due to legal restrictions, utc and raytheon are currently permitted to conduct only limited planning for the integration of the two companies following the merger. the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized on a timely basis, if at all. the combined company may not be able to engage in desirable capital-raising or strategic transactions following the merger. under current u.s. federal income tax law, a spin-off that otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment can be rendered taxable to the parent corporation and its stockholders as a result of certain post-spin-off transactions, including certain acquisitions of shares or assets of the parent corporation. to preserve the tax-free treatment of the distributions, the combined company may be limited in its ability to pursue certain equity issuances, strategic transactions, repurchases, or other transactions that it may otherwise believe to be in the best interests of its stockholders or that might increase the value of its business. upon completion of the merger, raytheon stockholders will have different rights under the combined company's governing documents than they do currently under raytheon's governing documents. upon completion of the merger, raytheon stockholders will no longer be stockholders of raytheon, but will instead become stockholders of the combined company and their rights as stockholders will be governed by the terms of the combined company's certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws. the terms of the combined company's certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws will be in some respects different than the terms of raytheon's certificate of incorporation and by-laws, which currently govern the rights of raytheon stockholders. the combined company's amended and restated by-laws will designate the state courts within the state of delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by combined company stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the combined company and its directors, officers and employees. under the combined company's amended and restated by-laws, unless the combined company determines otherwise, a state court located within the state of delaware (or, if no state court located within the state of delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the district of delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for: any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the combined company; any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director or officer or other employee of the combined company to the combined company or to combined company stockholders; 27 table of contents any action asserting a claim against the combined company or any director or officer or other employee of the combined company arising pursuant to any provision of the delaware general corporation law or the combined company's certificate of incorporation or the amended and restated by-laws (as either may be amended from time to time); or any action asserting a claim against the combined company or any director or officer or other employee of the combined company governed by the internal affairs doctrine. to the fullest extent permitted by law, this exclusive forum provision will apply to state and federal law claims, including claims under the federal securities laws, including the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act) and the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act), although combined company stockholders will not be deemed to have waived the combined company's compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. the enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies' bylaws has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with claims arising under federal securities laws or otherwise, a court could find the exclusive forum provision contained in the amended and restated by-laws to be inapplicable or unenforceable. this exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of combined company stockholders to commence litigation in a forum that they prefer, which may discourage such lawsuits against the combined company and its current or former directors, officers and employees. alternatively, if a court were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, the combined company may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could negatively affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. the future results of the combined company may be adversely impacted if the combined company does not effectively manage its complex operations following the completion of the merger. following the completion of the merger, the size of the combined company's aerospace and defense business will be significantly larger than the current size of either raytheon's business or the utc aerospace businesses, while at the same time the otis business and carrier business will no longer be part of utc. the combined company's ability to successfully manage this expanded aerospace and defense business while having completed the distributions will depend, in part, upon management's ability to design and implement strategic initiatives that address not only the integration of the utc aerospace businesses and raytheon, including utc's continuing integration of the rockwell collins business, but also the increased scale and scope of the combined business with its associated increased costs and complexity, and the loss of certain scale and scope through the distributions. there can be no assurances that the combined company will be successful in integrating the businesses or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits currently anticipated from the merger. each of utc and raytheon expects to incur substantial expenses related to the completion of the merger and the integration of the utc aerospace businesses and raytheon. each of utc and raytheon will incur substantial expenses in connection with the completion of the merger (including, in the case of utc, with respect to the separation and the distributions) to integrate a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems of utc and raytheon in connection with the merger. the substantial majority of these costs will be non-recurring expenses related to the transactions and facilities and systems consolidation costs. the combined company may incur additional costs or suffer loss of business under third-party contracts that are terminated or that contain change in control or other provisions that may be triggered by the completion of the transactions, and/or losses of, or decreases in orders by, customers, and may also incur costs to retain certain key management personnel and employees. utc and raytheon will also incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating integration plans for the combined company, and the execution of these plans may lead to additional unanticipated costs and time delays. these incremental transaction-related costs may exceed the savings the combined company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative costs and the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, particularly in the near term and in the event there are material unanticipated costs. factors beyond the parties' control could affect the total amount or timing of these expenses, many of which, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. 28 table of contents the market price of the combined company's common stock after the merger is completed may be affected by factors different from those affecting the price of utc common stock or raytheon common stock before the merger is completed. upon completion of the merger, holders of raytheon common stock will be holders of common stock of the combined company. as the businesses of utc and raytheon are different, the results of operations as well as the price of the combined company common stock may, in the future, be affected by factors different from those factors affecting each of utc and raytheon as an independent stand-alone company. the combined company will face additional risks and uncertainties to which each utc and raytheon may currently not be exposed. as a result, the market price of the combined company's shares may fluctuate significantly following completion of the merger. additionally, as a result of the distributions, the market price of shares of the combined company's common stock will generally not be affected by factors relating to the otis business or the carrier business. the market price of the combined company's common stock may decline as a result of the merger, including as a result of some utc and/or raytheon stockholders adjusting their portfolios. the market price of the combined company's common stock may decline as a result of the merger if, among other things, the operational cost savings estimates in connection with the integration of the businesses of the utc aerospace businesses and raytheon's businesses are not realized, there are unanticipated negative impacts on utc's financial position, results of operations or cash flows from either of the distributions, or if the transaction costs related to the merger are greater than expected. the market price also may decline if the combined company does not achieve the perceived benefits of the merger (including the separation and the distributions) as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts or if the effect of the transactions on the combined company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. in addition, sales of the combined company's common stock after the completion of the transactions may cause the market price of such common stock to decrease. it is estimated that utc will issue approximately 648 million shares, including share equity awards, of utc common stock in connection with the merger, based on the number of outstanding shares, including share equity awards, of raytheon common stock as of july 11, 2019. raytheon stockholders may decide not to hold the shares of combined company common stock they will receive in the merger. certain raytheon stockholders, such as funds with limitations on their permitted holdings of stock in individual issuers, may be required to sell the shares of combined company common stock that they receive in the merger. utc stockholders may decide not to continue to hold their shares of common stock following completion of the merger and/or the separation and the distributions. certain utc stockholders, such as funds with limitations on their permitted holdings of stock in individual issuers, may be required to sell their shares of common stock following completion of the transactions. such sales of combined company common stock could have the effect of depressing the market price for the combined company's common stock. any of these events may make it more difficult for the combined company to sell equity or equity-related securities, dilute your ownership interest in the combined company and have an adverse impact on the price of the combined company's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 80 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we generally supplement our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we may enter into interest rate swap agreements or treasury rate lock contracts with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments, payments to vendors and customer receipts denominated in foreign currencies. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. there were no interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2019 or december 31, 2018 . principal payments and interest rate detail for long-term debt by contractual maturity date as of december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 , respectively, were as follows: december 31, 2019 (in millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ 1,500 $ $ 1,100 $ $ 300 $ 1,892 $ 4,792 $ 5,337 average interest rate 3.550 % 2.500 % 3.150 % 5.406 % 4.017 % december 31, 2018 (in millions, except percentages) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ 1,500 $ $ 1,100 $ $ 2,192 $ 4,792 $ 5,063 average interest rate 3.550 % 2.500 % 5.097 % 4.017 % in may 2019, we entered into treasury rate lock contracts with a notional amount of $375 million, which were settled in the fourth quarter of 2019 without the issuance of debt due to merger-related considerations. in addition, the aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts was $1,487 million and $1,772 million at december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 , respectively. the net notional exposure of these foreign currency forward contracts was $746 million and $840 million at december 31, 2019 and december 31, 2018 , respectively. 80 table of contents the fair value of asset derivatives included in other assets, net and liability derivatives included in other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets related to foreign currency forward contracts were as follows: (in millions) 2019 2018 asset derivatives related to foreign currency forward contracts $ 29 $ 26 liability derivatives related to foreign currency forward contracts 15 34 for foreign currency forward contracts and treasury rate lock contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the gain or loss on the derivative in aocl, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue, cost of sales or interest expense transaction affects earnings. we present the gain or loss in the same income statement line items as the earnings effect of the hedged item, which offsets the foreign exchange or interest rate gains and losses on the underlying transactions being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency and interest rates is not material due to our hedging policy. 81 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. the company meets its working capital requirements with a combination of variable rate short-term and fixed rate long-term financing. the company enters into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks primarily to manage interest rates associated with the company financing arrangements. the company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks only to fix the dollar value of specific commitments and payments to international vendors and the value of foreign currency denominated receipts. the market-risk sensitive instruments used by the company for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability, or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. the company has used a special purpose entity to sell aircraft receivables and retains a partial interest that includes servicing rights, interest only strips, and subordinated certificates. financial instruments held by the company which are subject to interest rate risk include notes payable, long-term debt, long-term receivables, investments, and interest rate swap agreements. the aggregate hypothetical loss in earnings for one year of those financial instruments held by the company at december 31, 2003 and 2002, which are subject to interest rate risk resulting from a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 10 percent, was less than $1 million after-tax for both years. fixed rate financial instruments were not evaluated, as the risk exposure is not material. 39 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. the company meets its working capital requirements with a combination of variable rate short-term and fixed rate long-term financing. the company enters into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with the company financing arrangements. the company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the dollar value of specific commitments and payments to international vendors and the value of foreign currency denominated receipts. the market-risk sensitive instruments used by the company for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability, or transaction for which a commitment is in place. financial instruments held by the company which are subject to interest rate risk include notes payable, long-term debt, long-term receivables, investments, and interest rate swap agreements. the aggregate hypothetical loss in earnings for one year of those financial instruments held by the company at december 31, 2004 and 2003, which are subject to interest rate risk resulting from a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 10 percent, was approximately $1 million after-tax for both years. fixed rate financial instruments were not evaluated, as the risk exposure is not material. the company believes its exposure due to changes in foreign exchange rates is not material due to the company hedging policy and the fact that the company does not enter into speculative hedges. table of contents 52risk factors 14 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding the company 2006 financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects and anticipated financial performance. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. the company actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, nor use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them. we depend on the u.s. government for a significant portion of our sales, and the impairment of this relationship or changes in government defense spending could have severe consequences on our business. approximately 74% of our net sales in 2005 were to the u.s. government. therefore, any significant disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the u.s. government could adversely affect our current government contracts and our ability to procure new government contracts, which could significantly reduce our revenues and negatively impact our financial condition and operations. we compete with other government contractors for a limited number of government programs and for uncertain levels of funding. our competitors continuously engage in efforts to expand their business relationships with the u.s. government at our expense. accordingly, despite our efforts to maintain and broaden our relationships with it, the u.s. government may choose to use other contractors for its limited number of programs. in addition, our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded under various defense programs. the funding of our programs is subject to the overall u.s. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes and our programs must compete for funding with non-defense programs and other defense programs in which we are not involved. u.s. government budget decisions, including defense spending, are based on changing government priorities and objectives, which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events and macroeconomic conditions, and are beyond our control. in recent years, the overall level of u.s. defense spending has increased for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in iraq and afghanistan and the u.s. department of defense military transformation initiatives. we can give no assurance that u.s. defense spending will continue to grow. significant changes to u.s. defense spending could have long-term consequences for our size and structure. in addition, as a result of changing government priorities and requirements, defense spending could shift away from certain programs to other programs or into new areas and the timing of funding of certain programs could change. shifts or reductions in defense spending or changes in timing could result in the reduction or elimination of, or the delay in, funding of one or more of our defense programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. a substantial majority of our business is governed by u.s. government contracts, which are subject to continued appropriations by congress and termination. in our government and defense businesses, we act as a prime contractor or major subcontractor for many different u.s. government programs. a program generally is implemented by the award of individual contracts and subcontracts and is subject to congressional appropriations. congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend for several years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. u.s. government contracts and subcontracts under a program are subject to termination or adjustment if appropriations for such program are not available or change. 14 table of contents in addition, u.s. government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the u.s. government convenience as well as termination for default based on performance. upon termination for convenience, we are generally entitled to compensation only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. in addition, our government contracts typically involve the development, application and manufacturing of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with our government contracts. our financial performance is highly dependent on our procurement, performance and payment under our u.s. government contracts. while we are involved in numerous programs and are parties to thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more large contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of any termination of our contracts. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. in 2005, sales to non-u.s. customers, including foreign military sales, accounted for approximately 19% of our net sales. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. as a result, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including: the difficulty of complying with various u.s. and foreign laws, regulations, policies and other requirements regarding, among other things, investments, operations, and trade restrictions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives and consultants; uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding credit or guarantees; the difficulty of managing and operating an enterprise spread over various countries; economic and geopolitical developments and conditions, including international hostilities, acts of terrorism and governmental reactions, inflation, trade relationships, changes in government and military and political alliances; and uncertainty of dispute resolution in foreign jurisdictions. while these factors or the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses to conduct operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments. in order to sell many of our products outside of the u.s., we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various government agencies. for certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15 to 30 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing these sales. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent certain sales. our inability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 15 table of contents competition within our markets may reduce our procurement of future contracts and our sales. we operate in highly competitive markets. our competitors range from highly resourceful small concerns, which engineer and produce specialized items, to large, diversified firms. several established and emerging companies offer a variety of products for applications similar to those of our products. our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. in addition, as the defense industry consolidates, companies may enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us. we are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. some of our largest customers could develop the capability to manufacture products similar to products that we manufacture and provide services similar to services we offer. this would result in these customers supplying their own products or services and competing directly with us for sales of these products or services, all of which could significantly reduce our revenues and negatively impact our operations and financial results. accordingly, if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies that achieve market acceptance. the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; develop and maintain competitive products and services; enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; develop and manufacture and bring products to market quickly at cost-effective prices; and effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, teaming agreements, and other forms of alliances, to the competitive environment. specifically, at raytheon aircraft company (rac), our future success is dependent on our ability to meet scheduled timetables for the development, certification and delivery of new and derivative product offerings and our ability to continue to compete using our existing legacy aircraft products. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new products, services and technologies. these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new technology. due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. the possibility that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new government contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. we enter into fixed-price contracts which could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. a significant portion of our contracts are entered into on a fixed-price basis. this allows us to benefit from cost savings, but we carry the burden of cost overruns. because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts then we may not realize their full benefits. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 16 table of contents our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the u.s. government. as a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa). these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. the dcaa also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include: termination of contracts; forfeiture of profits; suspension of payments; fines; and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulation. government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. if these requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins. in addition, failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to: procurement integrity; export control; government security regulations; employment practices; protection of the environment; accuracy of records and the recording of costs; and foreign corruption. the termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. we depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we are dependent upon the delivery of materials by suppliers and the assembly of major components and subsystems by subcontractors used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. in our government and defense businesses, we must comply with specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, we may not have readily available alternatives. while we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components, and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 17 table of contents we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and our new commercial aircraft and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. in addition, we use lot accounting for our new commercial aircraft such as the beechcraft premier i and the hawker 4000. lot accounting involves selecting an initial lot size at the time a new aircraft begins to be delivered and measuring an average margin over the entire lot for each aircraft sold. the costs attributed to aircraft delivered are based on the estimated average margin of all aircraft in the lot and are determined under the learning curve concept which anticipates a predictable decrease in unit costs from cost reduction initiatives and as tasks and production techniques become more efficient through repetition. once the initial lot has been completed, the use of lot accounting is discontinued. accordingly, the selection of lot size is a critical judgment. we determine lot size based on several factors, including the size of firm backlog, the expected annual production on the aircraft, and the anticipated market demand for the product. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions, including our ability to sell at least the number of aircraft included in the initial lot size, or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. we must assess the value of used aircraft and aircraft materials and parts which requires significant judgment, and changes in the value of such items could adversely affect our future financial results. the valuation of used aircraft in inventories, which are stated at cost, but not in excess of realizable value, requires significant judgment. the valuation of used aircraft is also considered in assessing the realizable value of certain commuter aircraft-related assets which serve as collateral for the underlying financing arrangements. as part of our assessment of realizable value, we evaluate many factors, including current and future market conditions, the age and condition of the aircraft, and availability levels for the aircraft in the market. in addition, the valuation of aircraft materials and parts that support our worldwide fleet of aircraft, which are stated at cost, but not in excess of realizable value, also requires significant judgment. as part of our assessment of realizable value, we evaluate many factors, including the expected useful life of the aircraft, some of which have remained in service for up to 50 years. furthermore, we assumed an orderly disposition of both used aircraft and aircraft materials and parts in connection with our assessments of realizable value. changes in market or economic conditions and changes in products or competitive products may adversely impact the future valuation of used aircraft and aircraft materials and parts and such change in valuation could negatively impact our future financial condition and results of operations. goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operation. at december 31, 2005, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $12.1 billion, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 50% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. any excess goodwill carrying value resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over a one to five-year period. in addition, we will continue to incur non-cash charges in connection with the amortization of our intangible assets other than goodwill over the remaining 18 table of contents useful lives of such assets. future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by a downturn in the general aviation and other aircraft markets. if there is a downturn in the general aviation and other aircraft markets due to declining general economic conditions or other reasons, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. rac could experience declining sales of aircraft and increases in aircraft inventories and costs. rac provides long-term financing to its customers, so it could also experience an increase in defaults under these financing arrangements. in such a downturn, flight options llc (fo) could also experience declining sales of fractional ownership services and incur greater losses, which could result in the company investment in fo becoming further impaired and the company incurring additional charges. in addition, raytheon airline aviation services llc (raas) has exposure to outstanding financial arrangements for commuter aircraft, with the aircraft serving as collateral under these arrangements. raas commuter aircraft customers are generally thinly capitalized companies whose financial condition could be significantly affected by sustained higher fuel costs, industry consolidation, and declining commercial aviation market conditions. as a result, raas could experience an increase in financial defaults by its aircraft customers. we are at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving aircraft for which we hold design authority. if a raytheon aircraft were to crash or be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. our insurance may be inadequate to cover damages arising from any future accidents. in the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. in addition, any accident involving a raytheon aircraft could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe or reliable, which could harm our reputation, result in reduced sales, and harm our business. furthermore, accidents and incidents involving raytheon aircraft may prompt the federal aviation administration (faa) to issue directives or other notices regarding the aircraft. publication of a faa directive or notice could create a public perception that a particular raytheon aircraft is not safe, reliable, or suitable for an operator needs. this perception could result in a claim being filed against us or lost future sales, or both. in addition, the faa could require design modifications causing us to incur significant expenditures altering an aircraft design, altering aircraft in production, and altering fielded aircraft under warranty. faa airworthiness directives are typically followed by similar regulatory requirements in other countries where affected aircraft are certified. the publication of any of the foregoing by the faa could lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the aircraft manufacturing industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and changes in such regulations may increase our operating costs. our commercial aircraft products are required to comply with numerous regulations governing design approvals, production and quality systems, airworthiness, and continuing operational safety in the u.s. and other countries in which our aircraft are sold. these requirements are administered by the faa in the united states and the aviation authorities of other countries, including, in the case of europe, the european aviation safety agency (easa). if these requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins. 19 table of contents we use estimates in accounting for our pension plan and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our results of operations. we must determine our pension plan expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our long-term return on pension assets and discount rate assumptions. if our discount rate assumption (which is used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations) is decreased due to changes in our assumptions or other reasons, our pension plan expense could increase which would negatively impact our results of operations. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. in the ordinary course of our business, we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into certain joint venture, teaming and other business relationships to, among other things, expand our research and development, sales and other capabilities and support our broad portfolio of products and services. in some of these business arrangements, we may partner with one or more competitors. some arrangements may involve foreign partners. these arrangements involve certain risks and uncertainties, including: the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its loan, project performance, and other contractual obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from the business arrangement; the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts; and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. we have completed a number of acquisitions and investments over the past several years, and we currently intend to do so in the future. acquisitions and investments involve certain risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, the potential impairment of acquired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. we may incur additional charges relating to our former engineering and construction business. we have obligations related to outstanding letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees ( support agreements ) provided in connection with a number of contracts and leases of our former engineering and construction business unit, which we sold to washington group international in july 2000. in meeting our obligations under the remaining support agreements, we have various risks and exposures, including warranty closeout, various liquidated damages issues, and potential adverse claims resolution. while these potential obligations, liabilities and risks or the impact of them may be difficult to predict, they could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in the litigation matters to which we have been named a party, and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. 20 table of contents we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our businesses, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. the loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 11,500 of our employees are unionized, which represented approximately 15% of our employees at december 31, 2005. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships, currently with 9 different u.s. labor organizations and 4 different non-u.s. labor organizations, will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many united states and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, trademarks, and copyrights. on occasion, we have applied for semiconductor chip mask work registrations. the u.s. government has licenses in our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual property for government purposes. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or independent third party development of similar technologies. moreover, the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under united states law. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use and generate large quantities of hazardous substances and wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to our current or past practices at numerous properties and, in some cases, have been named as a defendant in related personal injury or toxic tort claims. we are also subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations that impose strict requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, restrict air and water emissions from our manufacturing operations, including government-owned facilities we manage, and require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. in addition, if we were convicted of a violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility involved in the violation cannot be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during the violation period. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, substantial capital and 21 table of contents operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including missile systems, command and control systems, and air traffic management systems. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. the unpredictability of our results may harm the trading price of our securities, or contribute to volatility. our operating results may vary significantly over time for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control, and any of which may harm our business. the value of our securities may fluctuate as a result of considerations that are difficult to forecast, such as: volume and timing of product orders received and delivered; levels of product demand; government spending patterns; the timing of contract receipt and funding; our ability and the ability of our key suppliers to respond to changes in customer orders; timing of our new product introductions and the new product introductions of our competitors; changes in the mix of our products; cost and availability of components and subsystems; price erosion; adoption of new technologies and industry standards; competitive factors, including pricing, availability and demand for competing products; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; conditions in the capital markets and the availability of project financing; regulatory developments; general economic conditions, particularly the cyclical nature of the general aviation market in which we participate; and our ability to obtain licenses from the u.s. government to sell products abroad. a rating downgrade by credit agencies could limit our access to capital and cause our borrowing costs to increase. a downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect our ability to access capital. if the rating agencies downgrade our ratings, particularly below investment grade, it may significantly limit our access to capital and our borrowing costs would increase. in addition, we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings and our potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. the company meets its working capital requirements with a combination of variable rate short-term and fixed rate long-term financing. the company enters into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with the company financing arrangements. the company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the dollar value of commitments and payments to international vendors and the value of foreign currency denominated receipts. the market-risk sensitive instruments used by the company for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability, or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. financial instruments held by the company which are subject to interest rate risk include notes payable, long-term debt, long-term receivables, investments, and interest rate swap agreements. the aggregate hypothetical loss in earnings for one year of those financial instruments held by the company at december 31, 2005 and 2004, which are subject to interest rate risk resulting from a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 10%, was approximately $2 million and $1 million after-tax for the year ended december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. fixed rate financial instruments were not evaluated, as the risk exposure is not material. the company believes its exposure due to changes in foreign exchange rates is not material due to the company hedging policy and the fact that the company does not enter into speculative hedges. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our anticipated sale of raytheon aircraft company, 2007 financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects and anticipated financial performance. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, nor use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them. the consummation of our sale of raytheon aircraft company is subject to risks and uncertainties, including the satisfaction or waiver of specified closing conditions by both parties. in december 2006, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our wholly-owned subsidiary, raytheon aircraft company. the transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including the receipt of certain regulatory approvals and the absence of events occurring that would have a material adverse effect (as defined in the definitive agreement) on raytheon aircraft, and is expected to be consummated during the first half of 2007. in the event that the raytheon aircraft sale, as contemplated, is not consummated, raytheon aircraft business could be negatively impacted by customer and employee concerns arising from the uncertainty of the situation. additionally, the market value of our common stock, which may assume and reflect the consummation of the announced raytheon aircraft sale, may fluctuate and be volatile. we depend on the u.s. government for a significant portion of our business and changes in government defense spending could have severe consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. raytheon aircraft, which derives a substantial majority of its revenues from the sale of business aircraft to commercial customers, is our only principal business that is not predominantly a government defense business. accordingly, in the event that our sale of raytheon aircraft is consummated, our dependence upon the u.s. government for business would increase. in 2006, with raytheon aircraft presented as discontinued operations and therefore no longer included in our net sales, u.s. government sales accounted for approximately 84% of our total net sales. u.s. government sales included foreign military sales of $1.3 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs. the funding of our programs is subject to the overall u.s. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events 15 table of contents and macroeconomic conditions, and are beyond our control. while the overall level of u.s. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in iraq and afghanistan and the u.s. department of defense military transformation initiatives, we can give no assurance that such spending will continue to grow, or not be reduced. significant changes in defense spending could have long-term consequences for our size and structure. in addition, changes in government priorities and requirements could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our financial performance is dependent on our ability to perform our u.s. government contracts which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and termination. our financial performance is dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. while we are involved in numerous programs and are parties to thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more large contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of any termination of our contracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. in the event that appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. our government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacturing of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with performing our government contracts. our international sales are a significant portion of our business and such sales may expand in the future; accordingly, we may increasingly become subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. our international business exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is subject to local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as to varying currency, geo-political and economic risks. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses to conduct operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments. due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell many of our products outside of the u.s. for example, the u.s. department of 16 table of contents state must notify congress at least 15 to 30 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate increasing competition in our core markets as a result of defense industry consolidation, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us, and the anticipated moderation of u.s. defense spending growth, which will limit market opportunities for us and our competitors. these markets also are becoming increasingly more concentrated due to the trend of certain customers awarding a smaller number of large multi-service contracts. we are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new or adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies for our current core defense markets and our future markets, including adjacent and emerging markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and future markets; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current or future markets; develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets; enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; develop and manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; and effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, teaming agreements and other forms of alliances, to the competitive environment. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new and adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. the possibility that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new government contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we enter into fixed-price contracts which could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. a significant portion of our contracts are entered into on a fixed-price basis. this allows us to benefit from cost savings, but we carry the burden of cost overruns. because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative 17 table of contents technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts then we may not realize their full benefits. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the u.s. government. as a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa). these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. the dcaa also reviews the adequacy of and a contractor compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. if these requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins. in addition, failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. the termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. we depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we are dependent upon the delivery of materials by suppliers and the assembly of major components and subsystems by subcontractors used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. with respect to most of our business, we must comply with specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, we may not have readily available alternatives. while we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and 18 table of contents nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. at december 31, 2006, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $12.1 billion, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 47% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we remain subject to certain risks and uncertainties with respect to raytheon aircraft company while we continue to operate the business. while we continue to operate raytheon aircraft, we remain subject to certain risks and uncertainties including the risks associated with: using lot accounting for new commercial aircraft and our valuation of used aircraft and parts in inventories, both of which require significant judgment and the use of assumptions and estimates; a downturn in the general aviation and other aircraft markets which could result in declining sales of aircraft and increases in aircraft inventories and costs; an accident involving our aircraft which could result in significant tort liability and harm our reputation and result in reduced sales; and compliance with extensive government regulation over aircraft manufacturing, which could require us to incur greater costs and reduce our margins. if flight options is unable to meet its projected future financial performance or otherwise support its carrying value, we could record additional impairment charges which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. flight options has a history of operating losses. in the fourth quarter of 2006 and 2005, we recorded a $55 million pretax and a $22 million pretax goodwill impairment charge related to flight options, respectively, based on our determination that the fair value of the business was not sufficient to recover the carrying value of its assets, including goodwill. we estimated the fair value of flight options using a discounted cash flow methodology. there were no observable market comparables available. the discounted cash flow methodology was based on the most recent flight options long-term plan at such time and the financial objectives therein. this methodology involves significant judgment regarding flight options projected future cash flows, expected market conditions and the impact of these on the selection of the discount rate used in estimating the fair value of flight options. we periodically evaluate whether conditions exist or events have occurred that impact flight options ability to achieve its financial objectives or otherwise affect the value of flight options. such conditions or events may include a downturn in the fractional ownership or general aviation markets or a significant change in industry dynamics or customer preferences, increased competition or pricing pressures, an increase in flight options operating costs due to higher aircraft or other costs, a change in our operating model or strategy with respect to flight options, or other information regarding its market value. if we determine that the fair value of flight options, which is largely based upon flight options projected future financial performance assuming continued operation by us, is less than its carrying value, then our investment in flight options could become further impaired. in the event that such a condition or event occurs, we may record additional charges which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. for additional information related to flight options, see other within segment results within item 7 of this form 10-k. 19 table of contents we use estimates in accounting for our pension plan and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our results of operations. we must determine our pension plan expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our long-term return on pension assets and discount rate assumptions. if our discount rate assumption or long-term return on assets (roa) (which is used to determine the funded status of our pension plans) is decreased due to changes in our assumptions or other reasons, our pension plan funded status and expense could increase which would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, if our actual return on assets differs from our long-term roa assumption, our pension plan funded status and pension expense would change. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments and acquisitions. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in the litigation matters to which we have been named a party and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our businesses, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. the loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 table of contents some of our workforce is represented by labor unions so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 12,000 of our employees, including the employees of raytheon aircraft, are unionized, which represented approximately 15% of our employees at december 31, 2006. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships, currently with 9 different u.s. labor organizations and 4 different non-u.s. labor organizations, will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many united states and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, trademarks and copyrights. on occasion, we have applied for semiconductor chip mask work registrations. the u.s. government has licenses in our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual property for government purposes. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or independent third party development of similar technologies. moreover, the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under u.s. law. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use and generate large quantities of hazardous substances and wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to our current or past practices at numerous properties and, in some cases, have been named as a defendant in related personal injury or toxic tort claims. we are also subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations that impose strict requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, restrict air and water emissions from our manufacturing operations, including government-owned facilities we manage, and require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. in addition, if we were convicted of a violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility involved in the violation could not be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during the violation period. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, substantial capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including missile systems, command and control systems, and air 21 table of contents traffic management systems. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the u.s. government. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. new accounting standards could result in changes to gaap that could impact our reported results of operations, financial condition and other financial measures. from time to time, the financial accounting standards board, the sec and other regulatory bodies may issue new and revised standards, interpretations and other guidance that change generally accepted accounting principles in the united states (gaap). the effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. such changes to gaap could impact our reported results of operations, financial condition and other financial measures. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we meet our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the dollar value of commitments and payments to international vendors and the value of foreign currency denominated receipts. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. financial instruments we hold that are subject to interest rate risk include notes payable, long-term debt, long-term receivables, investments and interest rate swap agreements. the aggregate hypothetical loss in earnings for one year of those financial instruments that we held at december 31, 2006 and 2005, which are subject to interest rate risk resulting from a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 10%, was approximately $2 million after-tax for the year ended december 31, 2006 and 2005. fixed-rate financial instruments were not evaluated, as the risk exposure is not material. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign exchange rates is not material due to our hedging policy and the fact that we do not enter into speculative hedges. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our 2008 financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects and anticipated financial performance. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, nor use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them. 15 table of contents we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business and changes in government defense spending could have severe consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. in 2007, u.s. government sales accounted for approximately 86% of our total net sales. u.s. government sales included foreign military sales through the u.s. government of $1.5 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs. the funding of our programs is subject to the overall u.s. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events and macroeconomic conditions, and are beyond our control. while the overall level of u.s. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in iraq and afghanistan and the u.s. department of defense military transformation initiatives, we can give no assurance that such spending will continue to grow, or not be reduced. significant changes in defense spending could have long-term consequences for our size and structure. in addition, changes in government priorities and requirements could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our financial performance is dependent on our ability to perform our u.s. government contracts which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and termination. our financial performance is dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. while we are involved in numerous programs and are parties to thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more large contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of any termination of our contracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. in the event that appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. from time to time, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the u.s. government fiscal year, congress may pass a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives, during a certain period. during such period (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), delays can occur in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and such delays can affect our results of operations during the period of delay. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. our government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacturing of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with performing our government contracts. 16 table of contents our international sales are a growing portion of our business; accordingly, we may increasingly become subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. our international business exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by potentially volatile regional and local economic and political factors, as well as u.s. foreign policy. our international sales are also subject to local government regulations and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government regulation, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as to varying currency, geo-political and economic risks. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. as a result of these factors, we could experience award and funding delays on international programs and could incur losses on such programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses to conduct operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments. due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside of the u.s. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15-60 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate increasing competition in our core markets as a result of defense industry consolidation, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us, and the anticipated moderation of u.s. defense spending growth, which will limit market opportunities for us and our competitors. these markets also are becoming increasingly more concentrated due to the trend of certain customers awarding a smaller number of large multi-service contracts. we are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new or adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies for our current core defense markets and our future markets, including adjacent and emerging markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and future markets; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current or future markets; develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets; enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; develop and manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; and effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, teaming agreements and other forms of alliances, to reflect the competitive environment. 17 table of contents we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new and adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. the possibility that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we enter into fixed-price contracts which could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. a significant portion of our contracts are entered into on a fixed-price basis. this allows us to benefit from cost savings, but we carry the burden of cost overruns. because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. if our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts then we may not realize their full benefits. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the u.s. government. as a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa). these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. the dcaa also reviews the adequacy of and a contractor compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. if these requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins. in addition, failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. the termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. 18 table of contents we depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we are dependent upon the delivery of materials by suppliers and the assembly of major components and subsystems by subcontractors used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we are generally subject to specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, we may not have readily available alternatives. while we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segregated; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. we use estimates in accounting for our pension plan and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our results of operations. we must determine our pension plan expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our long-term return on pension assets and discount rate assumptions. if our discount rate assumption or long-term return on assets (roa) (which is used to determine the funded status of our pension plans) is decreased due to changes in our assumptions or other reasons, our pension plan funded status and expense could increase which would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, if our actual return on assets differs from our long-term roa assumption, our pension plan funded status and pension expense would change. we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments and acquisitions. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, 19 table of contents the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements. these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. at december 31, 2007, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $12.1 billion, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 52% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with such business which adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets for such business. future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in the litigation matters to which we have been named a party and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. the loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 table of contents our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain our proprietary or classified information, and threats to physical security. these events could disrupt our operations, require significant management attention and resources, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 5,700 of our employees are unionized, which represents approximately 8% of our employee-base at december 31, 2007. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships, currently with 23 different u.s. labor organizations and 2 different non-u.s. labor organizations, will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, trademarks and copyrights. on occasion, we have applied for semiconductor chip mask work registrations. the u.s. government has licenses in our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual property for government purposes. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or independent third party development of similar technologies. moreover, the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under u.s. law. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use and generate large quantities of hazardous substances and wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to our past practices at numerous properties and, in some cases, have been named as a defendant in related personal injury or toxic tort claims. we are also subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations that impose strict requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, restrict air and water emissions from our manufacturing operations, including government-owned facilities we manage, and require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. in addition, if we were convicted of a violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility involved in the violation could not be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during the violation period. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, substantial capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 21 table of contents we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including missile systems, command and control systems, border security systems, and air traffic management systems. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers, either through contractual provisions, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, or otherwise. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we meet our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the dollar value of commitments and payments to international vendors and the value of foreign currency denominated receipts. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. in 2007, we changed the presentation of our primary market risk exposures from a sensitivity analysis to tabular presentation. we believe that the tabular presentation provides enhanced quantitative information regarding such exposures. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2007 and 2006 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional principal amounts and weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. as of december 31, 2007 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 453 $ 333 $ 1,503 $ 2,289 $ 2,446 average interest rate 4.85 % 5.50 % 6.50 % 6.03 % as of december 31, 2006 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 688 $ 309 $ 732 $ 453 $ 1,836 $ 4,018 $ 4,205 average interest rate 6.36 % 6.15 % 7.44 % 4.85 % 6.32 % 6.35 % as of december 31, 2007 aggregate notional amounts associated with interest rate swaps in place and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) interest rate swaps 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value fixed to variable $ 250 $ 325 $ 575 $ 10 average pay rate 4.05 % 4.22 % 4.14 % average receive rate 4.09 % 4.80 % 4.49 % 53 table of contents as of december 31, 2006 aggregate notional amounts associated with interest rate swaps in place and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) interest rate swaps 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value fixed to variable $ 25 $ 250 $ 325 $ 600 $ (16 ) average pay rate 5.13 % 5.08 % 5.05 % 5.06 % average receive rate 3.60 % 4.09 % 4.80 % 4.45 % we also held foreign currency contracts which consisted of the following major currencies at december 31, 2007 and 2006: 2007 2006 (in millions) buy sell buy sell british pounds $ 278 $ 400 $ 696 $ 297 canadian dollars 240 61 219 41 european euros 104 7 113 9 australian dollars 34 6 34 6 all other 122 4 20 7 total $ 778 $ 478 $ 1,082 $ 360 unrealized gains of $52 million were included in non-current assets and unrealized losses of $20 million were included in current liabilities at december 31, 2007. the offset to these gains and losses is included in other comprehensive income, net of tax. gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign exchange rates is not material due to our hedging policy. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our 2009 financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects and anticipated financial performance including our liquidity and capital resources and our pension expense. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, nor use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them. we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business and changes in government defense spending could have consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. in 2008, u.s. government sales accounted for approximately 87% of our total net sales. u.s. government sales included foreign military sales through the u.s. government of $1.8 billion in 2008. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the u.s. department of defense (dod). the funding of our programs is subject to the overall u.s. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events and macroeconomic conditions, and are beyond our control. the overall level of u.s. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in iraq and afghanistan and the dod military transformation initiatives. looking forward, based on the enacted levels of funding for the dod for fiscal year 2009, we expect continued robust levels of defense spending in the near-term. however, projected defense spending levels are uncertain and become increasingly difficult to predict for periods beyond the near-term due to numerous factors. we believe that the dod budget and priorities will be affected by several factors, including the following: external threats to our national security, including potential security threats posed by terrorists, emerging nuclear states and other countries; funding for on-going operations in iraq and afghanistan, which will require funding above and beyond the dod base budget for their duration; future priorities of the new administration which could result in significant changes in the dod budget overall and various allocations within the budget; and the overall health of the u.s. and world economies and the state of governmental finances. 16 table of contents significant changes in defense spending could have long-term consequences for our size and structure. in addition, changes in government priorities and requirements could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our financial performance is dependent on our ability to perform our u.s. government contracts which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and termination. our financial performance is dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. while we are involved in numerous programs and are party to thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more large contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of any termination of our contracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. in the event that appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. from time to time, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the u.s. government fiscal year, congress may pass a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives, during a certain period. during such period (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), delays can occur in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and such delays can affect our results of operations during the period of delay. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. our government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with performing our government contracts. our international sales are a growing portion of our business; accordingly, we may increasingly become subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. our international business exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, regional and local economic and political factors, as well as u.s. foreign policy. our international sales are also subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government regulation, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as to varying currency, geo-political and economic risks. our international contracts may include requirements on specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support obligations, known as offsets, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. we also are 17 table of contents exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. as a result of these factors, we could experience award and funding delays on international programs and could incur losses on such programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses to conduct operations abroad, and congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments. due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside of the u.s. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15-60 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate increasing competition in our core markets as a result of defense industry consolidation, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, projected u.s. defense spending levels for periods beyond the near-term are uncertain and difficult to predict. changes in u.s. defense spending may potentially limit certain future market opportunities. we are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new or adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies for our current core defense markets and our future markets, including adjacent and emerging markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and future markets; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current or future markets; develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets; enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; develop and manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; and effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, teaming agreements and other forms of alliances, to reflect the competitive environment. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new and adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. 18 table of contents the possibility that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we enter into fixed-price and other contracts which could subject us to losses in the event that we experience cost growth that cannot be billed to customers. generally, our customer contracts are either fixed-priced or cost reimbursable contracts. under fixed-priced contracts, which represent about half of our backlog, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we must carry the burden of any cost overruns. due to their nature, fixed-priced contracts inherently have more risk than cost reimbursable contracts, particularly fixed-price development contracts where the costs to complete the development stage of the program can be highly variable, uncertain and difficult to estimate. under cost reimbursable contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs and our fees may be reduced or eliminated. because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. under both types of contracts, if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts then we may not realize their full benefits. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the u.s. government. as a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa). these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. the dcaa also reviews the adequacy of and a contractor compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. if procurement requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins. in addition, failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. the termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. 19 table of contents we depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we are dependent upon the delivery of materials by suppliers and the assembly of major components and subsystems by subcontractors used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we are generally subject to specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, we may not have readily available alternatives. while we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. in addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors may be impacted by the recent global financial crisis, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. we use estimates and assumptions in accounting for our pension and other benefit plans, which are evaluated and updated on an annual basis. changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on assets (roa), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets and other actuarial factors could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. we must determine our pension and other benefit plans expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term roa and other actuarial assumptions. if our assumptions change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances, our pension and other benefit plans expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans could negatively change which would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term roa assumption would result in a change to our pension and other benefit plans expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. for a complete discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other benefit plan accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates on page 35 within item 7 of this form 10-k. we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments and acquisitions. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business 20 table of contents opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements. these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. at december 31, 2008, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $12.1 billion, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 52% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with such business which adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets for such business. future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in the litigation matters to which we have been named a party and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. the loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 table of contents our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, and threats to physical security. these types of events could disrupt our operations, require significant management attention and resources, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 5,600 of our employees are unionized, which represents approximately 8% of our employee-base at december 31, 2008. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual property for government purposes. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and prevent disclosure of our proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or third party development of similar technologies. moreover, the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under u.s. law. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use and generate large quantities of hazardous substances and wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to our past practices at numerous properties and, in some cases, have been named as a defendant in related personal injury or toxic tort claims. we are also subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations that impose strict requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, restrict air and water emissions from our manufacturing operations, including government-owned facilities we manage, and require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. in addition, if we were convicted of a violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility involved in the violation could not be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during the violation period. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 22 table of contents we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including missile systems, command and control systems, border security systems, and air traffic management systems. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers, either through contractual provisions, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, or otherwise. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we meet our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2008 and 2007 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional principal amounts and weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. for forward currency exchange contracts, the table presents notional principal amounts by contractual maturity dates. as of december 31, 2008 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long-term debt 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ 453 $ 333 $ 345 $ 1,158 $ 2,289 $ (2,493 ) average interest rate 4.85 % 5.50 % 5.38 % 6.84 % 6.03 % as of december 31, 2007 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long-term debt 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ $ 453 $ 333 $ 1,503 $ 2,289 $ (2,446 ) average interest rate 4.85 % 5.50 % 6.50 % 6.03 % 59 table of contents as of december 31, 2008 aggregate notional amounts associated with interest rate swaps in place and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) interest rate swaps 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value fixed to variable $ $ $ 250 $ $ 325 $ $ 575 $ 48 average variable rate paid 1.50 % 2.10 % 1.84 % average fixed receive rate 4.09 % 4.80 % 4.49 % as of december 31, 2007 aggregate notional amounts associated with interest rate swaps in place and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) interest rate swaps 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value fixed to variable $ $ $ $ 250 $ $ 325 $ 575 $ 10 average variable rate paid 4.05 % 4.22 % 4.14 % average fixed receive rate 4.09 % 4.80 % 4.49 % we also had foreign currency forward contracts which consisted of the following major currencies at december 31, 2008 and 2007: 2008 2007 (in millions) buy sell buy sell british pounds $ 382 $ 489 $ 278 $ 400 canadian dollars 189 27 240 61 australian dollars 98 8 34 6 european euros 87 1 104 7 all other 48 32 122 4 total $ 804 $ 557 $ 778 $ 478 unrealized gains of $81 million were included in non-current assets and unrealized losses of $107 million were included in current liabilities at december 31, 2008. for foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for cash flow hedge accounting, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative was reported as a component of other comprehensive loss, net of tax. gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. 60 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our 2010 financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects, trends and anticipated financial performance including with respect to our liquidity and capital resources, our pension expense and funding, our unrecognized tax benefits and the outcome of legal proceedings, claims, investigations, commitments and contingencies, as well as information regarding domestic and international defense spending and budgets. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such 13 table of contents matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, nor use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them. we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business and changes in government defense spending could have consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. in 2009, u.s. government sales accounted for approximately 88% of our total net sales. u.s. government sales included foreign military sales through the u.s. government of $2.8 billion in 2009. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the department of defense (dod), as well as a broad range of programs with the department of homeland security, the intelligence community and other departments and agencies. the funding of our programs is subject to the overall u.s. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events and macroeconomic conditions, and are beyond our control. the overall level of u.s. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in iraq and afghanistan and the dod modernization initiatives. looking forward, we expect overall defense spending to increase in the near term, albeit at lower rates than in recent years. however, projected defense spending levels are uncertain and become increasingly difficult to predict for periods beyond the near-term due to numerous factors, including the external threat environment, funding for on-going operations in iraq and afghanistan, future priorities of the administration and the overall health of the u.s. and world economies and the state of governmental finances. significant changes in defense spending could have long-term consequences for our size and structure. in addition, changes in government priorities and requirements could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our financial performance is dependent on our ability to perform our u.s. government contracts, which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and termination. our financial performance is dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. while we are involved in numerous programs and are party to thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more large contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of termination of any of our contracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. from time to time, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the u.s. government fiscal year, congress may pass a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives, during a certain period. during such period (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), delays can occur in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and these delays can affect our results of operations during the period of delay. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts 14 table of contents is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. our government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with performing our government contracts. our international business is subject to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks. our international business exposes us to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic business. in addition, our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, regional and local economic and political factors, as well as u.s. foreign policy. our international sales are subject to u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including the international traffic in arms regulations (itar) and the foreign corrupt practices act and other export laws and regulations. they are also subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as to varying currency, geo-political and economic risks. our international contracts may include requirements on specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support obligations, known as offsets, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. as a result of these factors, we could experience award and funding delays on international programs and could incur losses on such programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. sales of our products outside of the u.s. require u.s. government authorization and such authorizations may be delayed or withheld. due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside of the u.s. for example, the u.s. department of state must notify congress at least 15-60 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. during that time, congress may take action to block the proposed sale. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate increasing competition in our core markets as a result of defense industry consolidation, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, projected u.s. defense spending levels for periods beyond the near-term are uncertain and difficult to predict. changes in u.s. defense spending may potentially 15 table of contents limit certain future market opportunities. we are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new or adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies for our current core defense markets and our future markets, including adjacent and emerging markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and future markets; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current and future markets; develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets; enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; develop and manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; and effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, teaming agreements and other forms of alliances, to reflect the competitive environment. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new and adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. the possibility exists that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings that might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we enter into fixed-price and other contracts which could subject us to losses in the event that we experience cost growth that cannot be billed to customers. generally, our customer contracts are either fixed-priced or cost reimbursable contracts. under fixed-priced contracts, which represent about half of our backlog, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we must carry the burden of any cost overruns. due to their nature, fixed-priced contracts inherently have more risk than cost reimbursable contracts, particularly fixed-price development contracts where the costs to complete the development stage of the program can be highly variable, uncertain and difficult to estimate. under cost reimbursable contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs and our fees may be reduced or eliminated. because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. under both types of contracts, if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, we may not realize their full benefits. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 16 table of contents our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the u.s. government. as a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa). these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. the dcaa also reviews the adequacy of and a contractor compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. in addition, current u.s. government budgetary constraints could lead to changes in the procurement environment. if such changes occur, our costs of complying with procurement requirements could increase and reduce our margins. in addition, failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. the termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. we depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we are dependent upon the delivery by suppliers of materials and the assembly by subcontractors of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we are generally subject to specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, we may not have readily available alternatives. while we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. in addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors may be impacted by the recent global financial crisis, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated 17 table of contents with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. we use estimates and assumptions in accounting for our pension and other benefit plans, which are evaluated and updated on an annual basis. changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on assets (roa), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets and other actuarial factors could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. we must determine our pension and other benefit plans expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term roa and other actuarial assumptions. if our assumptions change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances, our pension and other benefit plans expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans could negatively change which would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term roa assumption would result in a change to our pension and other benefit plans expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. for a complete discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other benefit plan accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates on page 34 within item 7 of this form 10-k. we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments and acquisitions. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements. these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. at december 31, 2009, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $12.5 billion, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 53% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on 18 table of contents an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with such business which adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets for such business. future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. the loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, and threats to physical security. these types of events could disrupt our operations, require significant management attention and resources, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 5,600 of our employees are unionized, which represents approximately 7% of our employee-base at december 31, 2009. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual 19 table of contents property that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual property for government purposes. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and prevent disclosure of our proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or third party development of similar technologies. moreover, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under u.s. law. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use and generate large quantities of hazardous substances and wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to our past practices at numerous properties and, in some cases, have been named as a defendant in related toxic tort claims for costs of cleanup and property damages. we are also subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations that impose strict requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, restrict air and water emissions from our manufacturing operations, including government-owned facilities we manage, and require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. in addition, if we were convicted of a violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility involved in the violation could not be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during the violation period. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including missile systems, command and control systems, border security systems, and air traffic management systems. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers, either through contractual provisions, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, or otherwise. the amount of our insurance coverage we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax 20 table of contents expense and profitability. in addition, we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we meet our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2009 and 2008 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest and exchange rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional principal amounts and weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates at december 31, 2008. we terminated these interest rate swaps in the first quarter of 2009. there were no interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2009. as of december 31, 2009 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ 333 $ 345 $ $ 1,658 $ 2,336 $ 2,581 average interest rate 5.50 % 5.38 % 6.10 % 5.91 % 65 table of contents as of december 31, 2008 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ 453 $ 333 $ 345 $ 1,158 $ 2,289 $ 2,493 average interest rate 4.85 % 5.50 % 5.38 % 6.84 % 6.03 % as of december 31, 2008 aggregate notional amounts associated with interest rate swaps in place and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) interest rate swaps 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value fixed to variable $ $ $ 250 $ $ 325 $ $ 575 $ 48 average variable rate paid 1.50 % 2.10 % 1.84 % average fixed receive rate 4.09 % 4.80 % 4.49 % the notional amounts of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts consisted of the following at: december 31, 2009 december 31, 2008 (in millions) buy sell buy sell british pounds $ 407 $ 498 $ 382 $ 489 canadian dollars 212 46 189 27 euros 190 35 87 1 all other 176 53 146 40 total $ 985 $ 632 $ 804 $ 557 unrealized gains of $69 million and $81 million were included in non-current assets and unrealized losses of $33 million and $107 million were included in current liabilities at december 31, 2009 and december 31, 2008, respectively. for foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. 66 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors this form 10-k and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects, trends and anticipated financial performance including with respect to our liquidity and capital resources, our pension expense and funding, our unrecognized tax benefits and the outcome of legal and administrative proceedings, claims, investigations, commitments and contingencies, as well as information regarding domestic and international defense spending and budgets. you can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as will, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, intend, plan, or variations of these words, or similar expressions. these forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. these statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, nor use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them. we depend on the u.s. government for a substantial portion of our business and changes in government defense spending could have consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. in 2010, u.s. government sales accounted for approximately 88% of our total net sales. u.s. government sales included foreign military sales through the u.s. government of $3.3 billion in 2010. our revenues from the u.s. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various u.s. government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the department of defense (dod), as well as a broad range of programs with the department of homeland security, the intelligence community and other departments and agencies. the funding of our programs is subject to the overall u.s. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous 13 table of contents factors, including geo-political events and macroeconomic conditions. the overall level of u.s. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in iraq and afghanistan and the dod modernization initiatives. looking forward, defense spending levels are becoming increasingly difficult to predict and will be affected by numerous factors. such factors include the external threat environment, funding for on-going operations in iraq and afghanistan, priorities of the administration and the congress, and the overall health of the u.s. and world economies and the state of governmental finances. significant changes in defense spending could have long-term consequences for our size and structure. in addition, changes in government priorities and requirements could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we are involved in u.s. government programs, principally through our iis and sas business segments, which are classified by the u.s. government and our ability to discuss these programs, including any risks and disputes and claims associated with and our performance under such programs, could be limited due to applicable security restrictions. our financial performance is dependent on our ability to perform on our u.s. government contracts, which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and termination. our financial performance is dependent on our performance under our u.s. government contracts. while we are involved in numerous programs and are party to thousands of u.s. government contracts, the termination of one or more large contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be awarded new u.s. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of termination of any of our contracts. the funding of u.s. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as congress makes further appropriations. if appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. from time to time, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the u.s. government fiscal year, congress may pass a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the u.s. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives, during a certain period. during such period (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), delays can occur in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and these delays can affect our results of operations during the period of delay. in addition, u.s. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government convenience or for default based on performance. if one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. if one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the u.s. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. our government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. as a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with performing our government contracts. 14 table of contents our international business is subject to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks. our international business exposes us to geo-political and economic factors, regulatory requirements and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. these risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic business. in addition, our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers and geo-political uncertainties, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as u.s. foreign policy. our international sales are subject to u.s. laws, regulations and policies, including the international traffic in arms regulations (itar) and the foreign corrupt practices act and other export laws and regulations. due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various u.s. government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside of the u.s. we can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that certain sales will not be prevented or delayed. any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the u.s. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our international sales are also subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices which may differ from u.s. government regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as to varying currency, geo-political and economic risks. our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support obligations, known as offset obligations, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. our international contracts may also be subject to termination at the customer convenience or for default based on performance, and may be subject to funding risks. we also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. as a result of these factors, we could experience award and funding delays on international programs and could incur losses on such programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share. we operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. we anticipate increasing competition in our core markets as a result of defense industry consolidation, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us. in addition, as discussed in more detail above, u.s. defense spending levels in the near future are increasingly difficult to predict. changes in u.s. defense spending and the u.s. government procurement environment may potentially limit certain future market opportunities. we are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. additionally, some customers, including the dod, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. if we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. in the current competitive environment there may be an increase in bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. generally, a bid protest will delay the start of contract activities, and could result in the award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. to achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new or adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies for our current core defense markets and our future markets, including adjacent and emerging markets. accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our current and future markets; identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current and future markets; 15 table of contents develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets; enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; develop and manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; and effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, collaborative agreements and other forms of alliances, to reflect the competitive environment. we believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new and adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. these expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. in addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. the possibility exists that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings that might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. if we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we enter into fixed-price and other contracts which could subject us to losses in the event that we experience cost growth that cannot be billed to customers. generally, our customer contracts are either fixed-priced or cost reimbursable contracts. under fixed-priced contracts, which represent about half of our backlog, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we must carry the burden of any cost overruns. due to their nature, fixed-priced contracts inherently have more risk than cost reimbursable contracts, particularly fixed-price development contracts where the costs to complete the development stage of the program can be highly variable, uncertain and difficult to estimate. under cost reimbursable contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. if our costs exceed the contract ceiling and are not authorized by the customer or are not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs and our fees may be reduced or eliminated. because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. under both types of contracts, if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. in addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, we may not realize their full benefits. lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our results of operations. our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the u.s. government. as a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by u.s. government agencies such as the defense contract audit agency (dcaa). these agencies review a contractor performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. the dcaa also reviews the adequacy of and a contractor compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the u.s. government. in addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. 16 table of contents as a u.s. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements. these requirements, although customary in government contracts, impact our performance and compliance costs. in addition, current u.s. government budgetary constraints could lead to changes in the procurement environment, including the dod recent initiative focused on efficiencies, affordability and cost growth and other changes to its procurement practices. if and to the extent such changes occur, they could impact our results of operations and liquidity, and could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. in addition, failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. the termination of a government contract as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. we depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. we are dependent upon the delivery by suppliers of materials and the assembly by subcontractors of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. some products require relatively scarce raw materials. we are generally subject to specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. in some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. if any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, we may not have readily available alternatives. while we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. in addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors may be impacted by the recent global financial crisis, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. if we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. we could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. for example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. 17 table of contents significant changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on assets (roa), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and other factors could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. we must determine our pension and other benefit plans expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term roa and other actuarial assumptions. if our assumptions change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances, our pension and other benefit plans expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans could negatively change which would negatively impact our results of operations. in addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term roa assumption would result in a change to our pension and other benefit plans expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans. they may also be impacted by changes in regulatory, accounting and other requirements applicable to pensions. for a complete discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other benefit plan accounting policies, see critical accounting estimates on page 35 within item 7 of this form 10-k. we have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. in pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments and acquisitions. in evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements. these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. at december 31, 2010, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $12.6 billion, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 51% of our total assets. our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. in addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. we may subsequently experience unforeseen issues which adversely affect the value of our goodwill or the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets. future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 18 table of contents the outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. these matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. an adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. we depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. in addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. the loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions. as a u.s. defense contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, and threats to physical security. these types of events could disrupt our operations, require significant management attention and resources, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. some of our workforce is represented by labor unions so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. approximately 5,800 of our employees are unionized, which represents approximately 8% of our employee-base at december 31, 2010. as a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. in addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. we own many u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, data, software, trademarks and copyrights. the u.s. government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual property for government purposes. there can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. in some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. in the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and prevent disclosure of our proprietary information. these measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or third party development of similar technologies. moreover, the laws concerning intellectual property vary among nations and the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under u.s. law. 19 table of contents our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. we use and generate large quantities of hazardous substances and wastes in our manufacturing operations. as a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. for example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to our past practices at numerous properties and, in some cases, have been named as a defendant in related toxic tort claims for costs of cleanup and property damages. we are also subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations that impose strict requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, restrict air and water emissions from our manufacturing operations, including government-owned facilities we manage, and require maintenance of a safe workplace. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. in addition, if we were convicted of a violation of the federal clean air act or the clean water act, the facility involved in the violation could not be used in performing any u.s. government contract awarded during the violation period. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, new laws and regulations, changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. a significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. new technologies may be untested or unproven. in addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including missile systems, command and control systems, border security systems, and air traffic management systems. in some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to indemnification from our customers, either through contractual provisions, qualification of our products and services by the department of homeland security under the safety act provisions of the homeland security act of 2002, or otherwise. the amount of our insurance coverage we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. in addition, we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates. we meet our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and fixed-rate long-term financing. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. we may enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. the market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place. the following tables provide information as of december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest and exchange rates. for long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. there were no interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009. as of december 31, 2010 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ $ 400 $ 3,258 $ 3,658 $ 3,783 average interest rate 1.625 % 4.962 % 4.60 % as of december 31, 2009 principal payments and interest rate detail by contractual maturity dates (in millions, except percentages) long term debt 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value fixed-rate debt $ $ $ 333 $ 345 $ $ 1,658 $ 2,336 $ 2,581 average interest rate 5.50 % 5.38 % 6.10 % 5.91 % the notional amounts of outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts consisted of the following at: december 31, 2010 december 31, 2009 (in millions) buy sell buy sell british pounds $ 370 $ 296 $ 407 $ 498 canadian dollars 220 51 212 46 euros 165 32 190 35 all other 85 39 176 53 total $ 840 $ 418 $ 985 $ 632 unrealized gains of $45 million and $69 million were included in non-current assets and unrealized losses of $41 million and $33 million were included in current liabilities at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, respectively. for foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for hedge accounting, we record the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, and reclassify it into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. realized gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. we believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy. 68 table of contents