risk factors. 7 risk factors. we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations), or in the company's other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation could affect our profitability. we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third-party companies that transport our goods. the market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. the industries in which we operate experience both economic cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences. 7 table of contents fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. in addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber-based products and non-fiber substitutes. these consumer preferences affect the prices of our products. consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. competition in the united states and internationally could negatively impact our financial results. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. product innovations, manufacturing and operating efficiencies, and marketing, distribution and pricing strategies pursued or achieved by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. risks relating to market and economic factors adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial condition and results of operations. general economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. in addition, a return to volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. the level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial con- dition and impair our ability to operate our business. as of december 31, 2012 , international paper had approximately $10.1 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including $0 of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities and $9.6 billion of indebtedness outstanding under our floating and fixed rate notes. the level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy other obligations; our indebtedness that is subject to variable rates of interest exposes us to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and it may increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, and may make us unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. in addition, we are subject to agreements that require meeting and maintaining certain financial ratios and covenants. a significant or prolonged downturn in general business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests and could require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current business objectives. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of the company's ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. the company's desire to maintain its investment grade rating may cause the company to take certain actions designed to improve its cash flow, including sale of assets, suspension or further reduction of our dividend and reductions in capital expenditures and working capital. under the terms of the agreements governing approximately $4.6 billion of our debt as of 8 table of contents december 31, 2012 , the applicable interest rate on such debt may increase upon each downgrade in our credit rating. as a result, a downgrade in our credit rating may lead to an increase in our interest expense. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. any such downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur. downgrades in the credit ratings of banks issuing certain letters of credit will increase our cost of maintaining certain indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of deferred taxes. we are subject to the risk that a bank with currently issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting installment notes delivered to the company in connection with our 2006 sale of forestlands may be downgraded below a required rating. since 2006, certain banks have fallen below the required ratings threshold and were successfully replaced, or waivers were obtained regarding their replacement. ongoing uncertainty in the banking environment continues, including continued uncertainty with respect to whether the euro-zone will emerge from its sovereign debt crisis and the rating agencies' ongoing reassessment of bank ratings. as a result, a number of the letter-of-credit banks currently in place remain subject to risk of downgrade and the number of qualified replacement banks remains limited. the downgrade of one or more of these banks may subject the company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or could result in an acceleration of deferred taxes if a replacement bank cannot be obtained. see note 11 variable interest entities and preferred securities of subsidiaries on pages 69 through 72 of item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for further information. our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. we have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all u.s. salaried employees hired prior to july 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. we provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our u.s. salaried and certain hourly employees. our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase pension and health care costs. significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. our pension plans are currently underfunded, and over time we may be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. the benefit liability recorded under the provisions of accounting standards codification (asc) 715, compensation retirement benefits, at december 31, 2012 was $4.1 billion. this includes liability for the international paper company pension plans as well as the temple-inland retirement plan and the temple-inland supplemental executive retirement plan, for which we have responsibility in connection with the temple-inland acquisition. the amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, principally the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. changes in international conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, brazil, russia, poland, china, and india, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including governmental subsidies, tax benefits and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over international paper, may also adversely impact our operating results and business prospects in these countries. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law and other laws related to operations in foreign jurisdictions. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the 9 table of contents imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements could impact our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to u.s. and non-u.s. laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, boiler mact and national ambient air quality standards (naaqss), will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. we could also incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, regulations, codes and common law. the amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of hazardous substances. results of legal proceedings could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. the costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty. although we believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. risks relating to our operations material disruptions at one of our manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial condition. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler; damage or disruptions caused by third parties operating on or adjacent to one of our manufacturing facilities; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. we are subject to cyber-security risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology that manages operations and other business processes. international paper business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating and independent third party verification, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to cyber attacks. network, system, application and data breaches could 10 table of contents result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation including, but not limited to interruption to systems availability, denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with international paper. access to internal applications required to plan our operations, source materials, manufacture and ship finished goods and account for orders could be denied or misused. theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, could stem from such incidents. any of these operational disruptions and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, business delays, negative publicity and could have a material effect on our business. several operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. several operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as the ilim joint venture in russia and the recently established orsa international paper joint venture in brazil. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. we may not achieve the expected benefits from strategic acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures. our strategy for long-term growth, productivity and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to accomplish prudent strategic acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures and to realize the benefits we expect from such transactions, and are subject to the risk that we may not achieve the expected benefits. among the benefits we expect from potential as well as recently completed acquisitions and joint ventures are synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities or access to new markets (or a combination thereof), and in the case of divestitures, the realization of proceeds from the sale of businesses and assets to purchasers placing higher strategic value on such businesses and assets than does international paper. for example, on december 12, 2012, the company signed an agreement to divest our temple-inland building products business unit to georgia-pacific llc. our ability to complete the transaction is subject to certain conditions, including approval of the transaction by the u.s. department of justice. failure to consummate the agreed sale to georgia-pacific could result in significant delay in accomplishing a divestiture of temple-inland building products and inability to reach an agreement with one or more alternative purchasers on terms as favorable as the agreement with georgia-pacific. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the preceding discussion and note 13 derivatives and hedging activities on pages 73 through 77 ofrisk factors. 7 risk factors - risks relating to our operations and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - description of industry segments. from 2009 through 2013, international paper's capital expenditures approximated $5.0 billion , excluding mergers and acquisitions. these expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to improve product quality and environmental performance, as well as lower costs, maintain reliability of operations and improve forestlands. capital spending for continuing operations in 2013 was approximately $1.2 billion and is expected to be approximately $1.4 billion in 2014 . you can find more information about capital expenditures on page 35 of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . discussions of acquisitions can be found on pages 35 through 37 of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . you can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 25 through 27 of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . throughout this annual report on form 10-k, we incorporate by reference certain information in parts of other documents filed with the securities and exchange commission (sec). the sec permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. please refer to such information. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the sec, are publicly available free of charge on the investor relations section of our internet web site at www.internationalpaper.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information contained on or connected to our web site is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the sec. financial information concerning industry segments the financial information concerning segments is set forth in note 19 financial information by industry 1 table of contents segment and geographic area on pages 89 through 91 of item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . financial information about international and u.s. operations the financial information concerning international and u.s. operations and export sales is set forth in note 19 financial information by industry segment and geographic area on page 91 of item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . competition and costs the markets in the pulp, paper and packaging product lines are large and fragmented. the major markets, both u.s. and non-u.s., in which the company sells its principal products are very competitive. our products compete with similar products produced by other forest products companies. we also compete, in some instances, with companies in other industries and against substitutes for wood and wood-fiber products. many factors influence the company's competitive position, including price, cost, product quality and services. you can find more information about the impact of these factors on operating profits on pages 20 through 34 of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . you can find information about the company's manufacturing capacities on page a-4 of appendix ii . marketing and distribution the company sells paper, packaging products and other products directly to end users and converters, as well as through agents, resellers and paper distributors. we own a large merchant distribution business that sells products made both by international paper and by other companies making paper, paperboard, packaging, graphic arts supplies and maintenance and industrial products. sales offices are located throughout the united states as well as internationally. description of principal products the company's principal products are described on pages 27 through 29 of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . 2 table of contents sales volumes by product sales volumes of major products for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 were as follows: sales volumes by product (1) in thousands of short tons 2013 2012 2011 industrial packaging north american corrugated packaging (2) 10,393 10,523 7,424 north american containerboard (2) 3,273 3,228 2,371 north american recycling 2,379 2,349 2,435 north american saturated kraft 176 166 161 north american gypsum/release kraft (2) 157 135 north american bleached kraft 132 114 95 emea industrial packaging (3) 1,342 1,032 1,047 asian box 416 410 444 brazilian packaging (4) 297 industrial packaging 18,565 17,957 13,977 printing papers u.s. uncoated papers 2,508 2,617 2,616 european and russian uncoated papers 1,413 1,286 1,218 brazilian uncoated papers 1,150 1,165 1,141 indian uncoated papers 232 246 49 uncoated papers 5,303 5,314 5,024 market pulp (5) 1,711 1,593 1,410 consumer packaging north american consumer packaging 1,556 1,507 1,560 european and russian coated paperboard 355 372 332 asian coated paperboard 1,430 1,059 998 consumer packaging 3,341 2,938 2,890 (1) includes third-party and inter-segment sales and excludes sales of equity investees. (2) includes temple-inland volumes from date of acquisition in february 2012. (3) includes turkish box plants beginning in q1 2013 when a majority ownership was acquired. (4) includes brazil packaging from date of acquisition in mid- january 2013. (5) includes internal sales to mills. 3 table of contents research and development the company operates its primary research and development center in loveland, ohio, as well as several product laboratories. additionally, the company has an interest in arborgen, inc., a joint venture with certain other forest products companies. we direct research and development activities to short-term, long-term and technical assistance needs of customers and operating divisions, and to process, equipment and product innovations. activities include product development within the operating divisions; studies on innovation and improvement of pulping, bleaching, chemical recovery, papermaking, converting and coating processes; packaging design and materials development; mechanical packaging systems, environmentally sensitive printing inks and reduction of environmental discharges; re-use of raw materials in manufacturing processes; recycling of consumer and packaging paper products; energy conservation; applications of computer controls to manufacturing operations; innovations and improvement of products; and development of various new products. our development efforts specifically address product safety as well as the minimization of solid waste. the cost to the company of its research and development operations was $18 million in 2013 , $13 million in 2012 and $13 million in 2011 . we own numerous patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights relating to our products and to the processes for their production. we also license intellectual property rights to and from others where necessary. many of the manufacturing processes are among our trade secrets. some of our products are covered by u.s. and non-u.s. patents and are sold under well known trademarks. we derive a competitive advantage by protecting our trade secrets, patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and by using them as required to support our businesses. environmental protection international paper is subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation as well as similar regulations internationally. our continuing objectives include: (1) controlling emissions and discharges from our facilities into the air, water and groundwater to avoid adverse impacts on the environment, and (2) maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations. the company spent $61 million in 2013 for capital projects to control environmental releases into the air and water, and to assure environmentally sound management and disposal of waste. we expect to spend approximately $140 million in 2014 for similar capital projects, including expenditures associated with the u.s. environmental protection agency's (epa) boiler mact (maximum achievable control technology) regulations. capital expenditures for 2015 environmental capital projects are anticipated to be approximately $160 million , including boiler mact costs. capital expenditures for 2016 environmental capital projects are estimated to be $110 million , including boiler mact costs. on january 31, 2013, the epa issued the final boiler mact suite of regulations. these regulations require owners of specified boilers to meet revised air emissions standards for certain substances. several lawsuits have been filed to challenge all or portions of the boiler mact regulations. as such, the projected capital expenditures for environmental capital projects represent our current best estimate of future expenditures with the recognition that the boiler mact regulations are subject to change. in the u.s., air quality regulations finalized by the epa during 2013 are not expected to have a material impact on the company. to date, revisions to national ambient air quality standards (naaqs) for sulfur dioxide (so 2 ), nitrogen dioxide (no2), and fine particulate (pm2.5) finalized between 2010 and 2012 have not had a material impact on the company. regulations addressing specific implementation issues related to the so2 naaqs are being developed by the epa and are expected to be finalized during the next two years. potentially material capital investment might be required in response to these emerging requirements. climate change climate change refers to any significant change in the measure of the earth's climatic conditions such as temperature, precipitation, or winds that persist for decades or longer. climate change can be caused by natural factors, such as changes in the sun's intensity and ocean circulation, and human activities can also affect the composition of the earth's atmosphere, such as from the burning of fossil fuels. in an effort to mitigate the potential of climate change impacts from human activities, various international, national and sub-national (regional, state and local) governmental actions have been undertaken. presently, these efforts have not materially impacted international paper, but such efforts might have a material impact on the company in the future. international efforts in 1997, the kyoto protocol established emission reduction obligations for certain countries where the company had and continues to have operations. though the kyoto protocol expired in 2012, several countries, and most notably the european union (eu), extended their emissions commitments until 2020. a successor program to the kyoto protocol is the subject of on-going international negotiations. it is not yet clear if these negotiations will result in a new international 4 table of contents climate change agreement and, if so, what form it will take. due to this uncertainty, it is not possible at this time to estimate the potential impacts of future international agreements on the company. to assist member countries in meeting obligations under the kyoto protocol, the eu established and continues to operate an emissions trading system (eu ets). currently, we have two sites directly subject to regulation under phase iii of the eu ets, one in poland and one in france. other sites that we operate in the eu experience indirect impacts of the eu ets through purchased power pricing. neither the direct nor indirect impacts of the eu ets have been material to the company, but they could be material to the company in the future depending on how allocation of and market prices for greenhouse gas (ghg) credits evolve over the coming years. national efforts in the u.s., the kyoto protocol was not ratified and congress has not passed ghg legislation. the u.s. epa has acted regulatorily to control ghgs from mobile sources (through transportation fuel efficiency standards) and requires reporting of ghgs from sources of ghgs greater than 25,000 tons per year. in 2013, the company reported to epa the ghg emissions from 23 of our u.s. manufacturing sites and 7 landfills. in 2010, epa issued ghg regulations for new and modified sources under the new source review and title v operating permit programs. however, epa deferred the applicability of these ghgs regulations to biomass emissions until the summer of 2014 to allow a science advisory board (sab) to provide input to epa on how to incorporate the concept of carbon neutrality for biomass into their regulatory processes. before epa could act on the sab report, the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia ruled that the epa could not administratively defer regulation of biomass ghg emissions. the mandate for the biomass deferral vacature has yet to be acted upon and thus it is unclear how epa will incorporate the decision into climate change regulations. epa has also issued final regulations establishing new source performance standards (nsps) for new electrical generating units (egus). this regulation is the first of several expected nspss that epa will implement over the coming years. currently, the epa has not identified the pulp and paper industry in the first phase of sectors to be covered by the new standards. however, we anticipate that at some future time pulp and paper sources will be subject to new ghg nsps rules. it is unclear what impacts, if any, future ghg nsps rules will have on the company's operations. state, regional and local measures a few u.s. states have enacted or are considering legal measures to require the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases by companies and public utilities, primarily through the development of greenhouse gas emission inventories or regional ghg cap-and-trade programs. one such state is california. the company does not have any sites currently subject to california's ghg regulatory plan. there may be indirect impacts from changing input costs (such as electricity) at some of our california converting operations but these have yet to manifest themselves in material impacts. although we are monitoring proposed programs in other states, it is unclear what impacts, if any, state level ghg rules will have on the company's operations. summary regulation of greenhouse gases continues to evolve in various countries in which we do business. while it is likely that there will be increased governmental action regarding greenhouse gases and climate change, at this time it is not reasonably possible to estimate either a timetable for the implementation of any new regulations or our costs of compliance. in addition to possible direct impacts, future legislation and regulation could have indirect impacts on international paper, such as higher prices for transportation, energy and other inputs, as well as more protracted air permitting processes, causing delays and higher costs to implement capital projects. international paper has controls and procedures in place to stay adequately informed about developments concerning possible climate change legislation and regulation in the u.s. and in other countries where we operate. we regularly assess whether such legislation or regulation may have a material effect on the company, its operations or financial condition, and whether we have any related disclosure obligations. additional information regarding climate change and international paper, including our emissions for 2013, are available in our sustainability report found at http://www.internationalpaper.com/us/en/company/sustainability/sustainabilityreport.html, though this information is not incorporated by reference into this form 10-k and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the sec. employees as of december 31, 2013 , we had approximately 69,000 employees, 39,000 of whom were located in the united states. of the u.s. employees, approximately 26,000 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 15,500 employees. approximately 12,000 of the union employees are represented by the united steel workers (usw). 5 table of contents international paper and the usw have negotiated two master agreements covering our usw represented mills and converting facilities, respectively. these master agreements cover several specific items, including wages, select benefit programs, successorship, employment security, and health and safety. individual facilities continue to have local agreements for other subjects not covered by the master agreements. if local facility agreements are not successfully negotiated at the time of expiration, under the terms of the master agreements the local contracts will automatically renew with the same terms in effect. the mill master agreement covers 18 of our u. s. pulp, paper, and packaging mills; the converting agreement includes 63 of our converting facilities. in addition, international paper is party to a master agreement with district council 2, international brotherhood of teamsters, covering 16 additional converting facilities. during 2013, 36 local labor agreements were negotiated at 13 mills, 21 converting facilities and two distribution facilities. in 2014, 50 labor agreements are scheduled to be negotiated, including seven mills, 30 converting facilities and 13 distribution facilities. thirty-one of these agreements will automatically renew under the terms of the applicable master agreement if new agreements are not reached. executive officers of the registrant john v. faraci, 64, chairman and chief executive officer since 2003. mr. faraci joined international paper in 1974. c. cato ealy, 57, senior vice president - corporate development since 2003. mr. ealy is a director of ilim holding s.a., a swiss holding company in which international paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, ilim group. mr. ealy joined international paper in 1992. william p. hoel, 57, senior vice president, container the americas, since february 2012. mr. hoel previously served as vice president, container the americas, from 2005 until 2012, senior vice president, corporate sales and marketing, from 2004 until 2005, and vice president, wood products, from 2000 until 2004. mr. hoel joined international paper in 1983. tommy s. joseph, 54, senior vice president - manufacturing, technology, ehs&amp;s and global sourcing since january 2010. mr. joseph previously served as senior vice president - manufacturing, technology, ehs&amp;s from february 2009 until december 2009, and vice president - technology from 2005 until february 2009. mr. joseph is a director of ilim holding s.a., a swiss holding company in which international paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, ilim group. mr. joseph joined international paper in 1983. thomas g. kadien, 57, senior vice president - consumer packaging and ip asia since january 2010. mr. kadien previously served as senior vice president and president - xpedx from 2005 until 2009. mr. kadien joined international paper in 1978. mr. kadien serves on the board of directors of the sherwin-williams company. paul j. karre, 61, senior vice president - human resources and communications since may 2009. mr. karre previously served as vice president - human resources from 2000 until 2009. mr. karre joined international paper in 1974. mary a. laschinger, 53, senior vice president since 2007 and president - xpedx since january 2010. ms. laschinger previously served as president - ip europe, middle east, africa and russia from 2005 until 2010. ms. laschinger joined international paper in 1992. ms. laschinger serves on the board of directors of the kellogg company. tim s. nicholls, 52, senior vice president - printing and communications papers of the americas since november 2011. mr. nicholls previously served as senior vice president and chief financial officer from 2007 until 2011 and vice president and executive project leader of ip europe during 2007. mr. nicholls served as vice president and chief financial officer - ip europe from 2005 until 2007. mr. nicholls joined international paper in 1991. jean-michel ribieras, 51, senior vice president and president - ip europe, middle east, africa and russia since june 2013. mr. ribieras previously served as president - ip latin america from 2009 until 2013. mr. ribieras is a director of ilim holding s.a., a swiss holding company in which international paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, ilim group. mr. ribieras joined international paper in 1993. carol l. roberts, 54, senior vice president and chief financial officer since november 2011. ms. roberts previously served as senior vice president - industrial packaging from 2008 until 2011 and senior vice president - ip packaging solutions from 2005 until 2008. ms. roberts serves on the board of directors of alcoa inc. and ilim holding s.a., a swiss holding company in which international paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, ilim group. ms. roberts joined international paper in 1981. sharon r. ryan, 54, senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since november 2011. ms. ryan previously served as senior vice president, acting general counsel and corporate secretary from may 2011 until november 2011, and as vice president from march 2011 until may 2011. ms. ryan served as associate general counsel, chief ethics and compliance officer from 2009 until 2011, 6 table of contents and as associate general counsel from 2006 until 2011. ms. ryan joined international paper in 1988. mark s. sutton, 52, senior vice president - industrial packaging since november 2011. mr. sutton previously served as senior vice president - printing and communications papers of the americas from 2010 until 2011, senior vice president - supply chain from 2008 to 2009, and vice president - supply chain from 2007 until 2008. mr. sutton served as vice president - strategic planning from 2005 until 2007. mr. sutton joined international paper in 1984. raw materials raw materials essential to our businesses include wood fiber, purchased in the form of pulpwood, wood chips and old corrugated containers (occ), and certain chemicals, including caustic soda and starch. information concerning fiber supply purchase agreements that were entered into in connection with the company's 2006 transformation plan and the cbpr acquisition in 2008 is presented in note 11 commitments and contingent liabilities on page 68 and 69 of item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . forward-looking statements certain statements in this annual report on form 10-k that are not historical in nature may be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, appear, project, estimate, intend, and words of a similar nature. these statements are not guarantees of future performance and reflect management's current views with respect to future events, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. factors which could cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: (i) the level of our indebtedness and increases in interest rates; (ii) industry conditions, including but not limited to changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation costs, competition we face, cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences, demand and pricing for our products; (iii) global economic conditions and political changes, including but not limited to the impairment of financial institutions, changes in currency exchange rates, credit ratings issued by recognized credit rating organizations, the amount of our future pension funding obligation, changes in tax laws and pension and health care costs; (iv) unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with existing and new environmental and other governmental regulations and to actual or potential litigation; (v) whether we experience a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities; (vi) risks inherent in conducting business through a joint venture; (vii) the receipt of governmental and other approvals and favorable rulings associated with the agreed-upon transaction combining xpedx with unisource, the successful fulfillment or waiver of all other closing conditions for the transaction without unexpected delays or conditions, and the successful closing of the transaction within the estimated timeframe; and (viii) our ability to achieve the benefits we expect from all strategic acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings. these and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward looking statements are discussed in greater detail below in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. all financial information and statistical measures regarding our 50/50 ilim joint venture in russia ( ilim ), other than historical international paper equity earnings and dividends received by international paper, have been prepared by the management of ilim. ilim management has indicated that the financial information was prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards and extracted from ilim's financial statements, but international paper has not verified or audited any of this information. any projected financial information and statistical measures reflect the current views of ilim management and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such projections. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ), or in the company's other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation could affect our profitability. we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third-party companies that transport our goods. the market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. increased demand 7 table of contents for biomass to meet a growing number of government mandates and incentives to promote the use of biomass for renewable electrical energy generation may also impact pricing and availability of virgin wood fiber. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. the industries in which we operate experience both economic cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences. fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. in addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber-based products and non-fiber substitutes. these consumer preferences affect the prices of our products. consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. competition in the united states and internationally could negatively impact our financial results. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. product innovations, manufacturing and operating efficiencies, and marketing, distribution and pricing strategies pursued or achieved by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. risks relating to market and economic factors adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial condition and results of operations. general economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. in addition, volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. the level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial con- dition and impair our ability to operate our business. as of december 31, 2013 , international paper had approximately $9.5 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including $0 of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities and $8.8 billion of indebtedness outstanding under our floating and fixed rate notes. the level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, dividends, share repurchases, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy other obligations; our indebtedness that is subject to variable rates of interest exposes us to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and it may increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, and may make us unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. in addition, we are subject to agreements that require meeting and maintaining certain financial ratios and covenants. a significant or prolonged downturn in general business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests and could require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current business objectives. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating 8 table of contents organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of the company's ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. the company's desire to maintain its investment grade rating may cause the company to take certain actions designed to improve its cash flow, including sale of assets, suspension or reduction of our dividend and reductions in capital expenditures and working capital. under the terms of the agreements governing approximately $4.3 billion of our debt as of december 31, 2013 , the applicable interest rate on such debt may increase upon each downgrade in our credit rating. as a result, a downgrade in our credit rating may lead to an increase in our interest expense. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. any such downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur. downgrades in the credit ratings of banks issuing certain letters of credit will increase our cost of maintaining certain indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of deferred taxes. we are subject to the risk that a bank with currently issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting installment notes delivered to the company in connection with our 2006 and temple-inland's 2007 sales of forestlands may be downgraded below a required rating. since 2006, certain banks have fallen below the required ratings threshold and were successfully replaced, or waivers were obtained regarding their replacement. as a result of continuing uncertainty in the banking environment, a number of the letter-of-credit banks currently in place remain subject to risk of downgrade and the number of qualified replacement banks remains limited. the downgrade of one or more of these banks may subject the company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or could result in an acceleration of deferred taxes if a replacement bank cannot be obtained. see note 12 variable interest entities and preferred securities of subsidiaries on pages 72 through 75 of item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for further information . our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. we have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all u.s. salaried employees hired prior to july 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. we provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our u.s. salaried and certain hourly employees. our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets and health care reform could also increase pension and health care costs. significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. our pension plans are currently underfunded, and over time we may be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. the benefit liability recorded under the provisions of accounting standards codification (asc) 715, compensation retirement benefits, at december 31, 2013 was $2.2 billion. this includes liability for the international paper company pension plans as well as the temple-inland retirement plan, for which we have responsibility in connection with the temple-inland acquisition. the amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, principally the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. changes in international conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, brazil, russia, poland, china, india, and turkey where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including 9 table of contents governmental subsidies, tax benefits and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over international paper, may also adversely impact our operating results and business prospects in these countries. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law and other laws related to operations in foreign jurisdictions. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and other government requirements that may change in significant ways, and the cost of compliance with such requirements could impact our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and other government requirements -- including, among others, those relating to the environment, health and safety and to labor and employment. there can be no assurance that laws, regulations and government requirements will not be changed, applied or interpreted in ways that will require us to modify our operations and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs. for example, we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, boiler mact and naaqss, will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. we could also incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), natural resource damages claims, cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, regulations, codes and common law. the amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of hazardous substances. as another example, we are subject to a number of labor and employment laws and regulations that could significantly increase our operating costs and reduce our operational flexibility. results of legal proceedings could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. the costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty. although we believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. risks relating to our operations material disruptions at one of our manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial condition. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; the effect of other severe weather conditions on equipment and facilities; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler; damage or disruptions caused by third parties operating on or adjacent to one of our manufacturing facilities; 10 table of contents disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. we are subject to cyber-security risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology that manages operations and other business processes. international paper business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating and independent third party verification, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to cyber attacks. network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation including, but not limited to interruption to systems availability, denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with international paper. access to internal applications required to plan our operations, source materials, manufacture and ship finished goods and account for orders could be denied or misused. theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential company, employee, customer or vendor information, could stem from such incidents. any of these operational disruptions and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, business delays, negative publicity and could have a material effect on our business. several operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. several operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as the ilim joint venture in russia. in joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. the agreed-upon transaction combining xpedx with unisource may not be completed within the expected timeframe, or at all, and we may not achieve the expected benefits from this divestiture or from other strategic acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures. on january 28, 2014, we announced that xpedx holding company (spinco) and unisource will merge under the terms of a definitive agreement that will result in the creation of a new publicly traded company. the transaction will be accomplished through a reverse morris trust structure in which international paper will indirectly contribute the assets of xpedx to a newly formed wholly owned subsidiary, spinco, in exchange for shares of common stock of spinco, a special payment of $400 million, subject to adjustments, expected to be financed with new debt in spinco's capital structure, as well as the potential for an additional cash payment pursuant to an "earn-out" provision. international paper will distribute shares of spinco to international paper shareholders on a pro rata basis in a manner intended to be tax-free to international paper and its shareholders. the transaction is expected to be completed in mid-2014. completion of the transaction is subject to the satisfaction (or waiver) of a number of important conditions that are beyond our control and may prevent, delay or otherwise negatively affect its completion. the success of the transaction will depend, in part, on the ability of the combined company to realize anticipated growth opportunities, cost savings and other synergies. spinco's success in realizing these growth opportunities, cost savings and other synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of xpedx's business and operations with unisource's business and operations. even if the combined company is able to integrate the xpedx and unisource businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities, cost savings and other synergies currently expected from this integration within the anticipated time frame or at all. moreover, substantial expenses will be incurred in connection with the transaction and with the integration of xpedx's business 11 table of contents with unisource's business. such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately and may exceed current estimates. accordingly, the benefits from the transaction may be offset by costs or delays incurred in integrating the businesses. more broadly, our strategy for long-term growth, productivity and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to accomplish prudent strategic acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures and to realize the benefits we expect from such transactions, and we are subject to the risk that we may not achieve the expected benefits. among the benefits we expect from potential as well as recently completed acquisitions and joint ventures are synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities or access to new markets (or a combination thereof), and in the case of divestitures, the realization of proceeds from the sale of businesses and assets to purchasers placing higher strategic value on such businesses and assets than does international paper. if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free spin-off under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of stock of international paper or spinco, then international paper and/or the international paper shareholders may be required to pay substantial u.s. federal income taxes. the spin-off and the merger are conditioned upon international paper's receipt of a private letter ruling from the u.s. internal revenue service ( irs ) to the effect that the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify as tax-free to international paper and the international paper shareholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes. although a private letter ruling from the irs generally is binding on the irs, the irs ruling does not rule that the spin-off satisfies every requirement for a tax-free spin-off under section 355 of the code, and the parties will rely solely on the opinion of counsel for comfort that such additional requirements are satisfied. if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free spin-off under section 355 of the code, then the receipt of spinco common stock would be taxable to the international paper shareholders, international paper might recognize a substantial gain on the spin-off, and spinco may be required to indemnify international paper for the tax on such gain pursuant to a tax matters agreement. there can be no assurance that spinco would have the resources or liquidity required to indemnify international paper for any such taxable gain. in addition, the spin-off will be taxable to international paper pursuant to section 355(e) of the code if there is a 50% or more change in ownership of either international paper or spinco, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. because the international paper shareholders will collectively own more than 50% of our common stock following the merger, the merger alone will not cause the spin-off to be taxable to international paper under section 355(e) of the code. however, section 355(e) of the code might apply if other acquisitions of stock of international paper before or after the merger, or of spinco after the merger, are considered to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the preceding discussion and note 14 derivatives and hedging activities on pages 76 through 80 ofrisk factors. 8 risk factors. we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. all financial information and statistical measures regarding our 50/50 ilim joint venture in russia ( ilim ), other than historical international paper equity earnings and dividends received by international paper, have been prepared by the management of ilim. in providing this information in this filing, we are relying on the effectiveness of ilim's internal control environment. any projected financial information and statistical measures reflect the current views of ilim management and are subject to the risks and uncertainties that cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such projections. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ), or in the company's other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation could affect our profitability. we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third-party companies that transport our goods. the market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. increased demand for biomass to meet a growing number of government mandates and incentives to promote the use of biomass for renewable electrical energy generation may also impact pricing and availability of virgin wood fiber. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. the industries in which we operate experience both economic cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences. fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. in addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber-based products and non-fiber substitutes. these consumer preferences affect the prices of our products. consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. competition in the united states and internationally could negatively impact our financial results. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. product innovations, manufacturing and operating efficiencies, and marketing, distribution and pricing strategies pursued or achieved by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. risks relating to market and economic factors adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial condition and results of operations. general economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. in addition, volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. the level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business. as of december 31, 2014 , international paper had approximately $9.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including $8.7 billion of indebtedness outstanding under our floating and fixed rate notes. there was no indebtedness outstanding under our 8 table of contents credit facilities as of december 31, 2014. the level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, dividends, share repurchases, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy other obligations; our indebtedness that is subject to variable rates of interest exposes us to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and it may increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, and may make us unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. in addition, we are subject to agreements that require meeting and maintaining certain financial ratios and covenants. a significant or prolonged downturn in general business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests and could require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current business objectives. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of the company's ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. the company's desire to maintain its investment grade rating may cause the company to take certain actions designed to improve its cash flow, including sale of assets, suspension or reduction of our dividend and reductions in capital expenditures and working capital. under the terms of the agreements governing approximately $3.3 billion of our debt as of december 31, 2014 , the applicable interest rate on such debt may increase upon each downgrade in our credit rating. as a result, a downgrade in our credit rating may lead to an increase in our interest expense. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. any such downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur. our inability to extend, renew or refinance loan agreements used to monetize installment notes from the sale of our forestlands may result in the acceleration of deferred taxes. in connection with the 2006 international paper installment sale of forestlands, we received installment notes (or timber notes), which we contributed to certain borrower entities. the entities to which these installment notes were contributed used the installment notes as collateral for approximately $4.8 billion in loans from third-party lenders. of the $4.8 billion in loans from third-party lenders, $4.1 billion mature in september 2015, while the installment notes mature in august 2016 (unless extended). failure to extend, renew or refinance these loans prior to their stated maturity could trigger the sale of the installment notes to facilitate the $4.1 billion debt payment which, in turn, would result in an acceleration of the payment of approximately $1.2 billion in deferred income taxes in 2015, rather than in 2016 when the installment notes mature (unless extended). the deferred taxes are currently recorded in the company's consolidated financial statements. for further information, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-liquidity and capital resources and note 10 income taxes on pages 62 through 64 and note 12 variable interest entities and preferred securities of subsidiaries on pages 67 through 69 of item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . downgrades in the credit ratings of banks issuing certain letters of credit will increase our cost of maintaining certain indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of deferred taxes. we are subject to the risk that a bank with currently issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting installment notes delivered to the company in connection with our 2006 9 table of contents and temple-inland's 2007 sales of forestlands may be downgraded below a required rating. since 2006, certain banks have fallen below the required ratings threshold and were successfully replaced, or waivers were obtained regarding their replacement. as a result of continuing uncertainty in the banking environment, a number of the letter-of-credit banks currently in place remain subject to risk of downgrade and the number of qualified replacement banks remains limited. the downgrade of one or more of these banks may subject the company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or could result in an acceleration of payments of up to $2.3 billion in deferred income taxes if replacement banks cannot be obtained. the deferred taxes are currently recorded in the company's consolidated financial statements. see note 12 variable interest entities and preferred securities of subsidiaries on pages 67 through 69 and note 10 income taxes on pages 62 through 64 of item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for further information . our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. we have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all u.s. salaried employees hired prior to july 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. we provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our u.s. salaried and certain hourly employees. our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could increase pension costs. health care reform under the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010 could also increase costs with respect to medical coverage of the company's full-time employees. significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. our pension plans are currently underfunded, and over time we may be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. the benefit liability recorded under the provisions of accounting standards codification (asc) 715, compensation retirement benefits, at december 31, 2014 was $3.9 billion. the amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, including the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. changes in international conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, russia, brazil, poland, china, india, and turkey where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar (such as in russia during 2014), downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including governmental subsidies, tax benefits and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over international paper, may also adversely impact our operating results and business prospects in these countries. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law and other laws related to operations in foreign jurisdictions. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and other government requirements that may change in significant ways, and the cost of compliance with such requirements could impact our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and other government requirements -- including, among others, those relating to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment and health care. there can be no assurance that laws, regulations and government requirements will not be changed, applied or interpreted in ways that will require us to modify our operations and objectives or affect our returns on investments by 10 table of contents restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs. for example, we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, boiler mact and naaqss, will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. we could also incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), natural resource damages claims, cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, regulations, codes and common law. the amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of hazardous substances. as another example, we are subject to a number of labor and employment laws and regulations that could significantly increase our operating costs and reduce our operational flexibility. results of legal proceedings could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. the costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty. although we believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. risks relating to our operations material disruptions at one of our manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial condition. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; the effect of other severe weather conditions on equipment and facilities; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler; damage or disruptions caused by third parties operating on or adjacent to one of our manufacturing facilities; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; widespread outbreak of an illness or any other communicable disease, or any other public health crisis; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. we are subject to cyber-security risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology that manages operations and other business processes. our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating and independent third party verification, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to cyber attacks. network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation including, but not limited to interruption to systems availability, denial of access 11 table of contents to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with international paper. access to internal applications required to plan our operations, source materials, manufacture and ship finished goods and account for orders could be denied or misused. theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential company, employee, customer or vendor information, could stem from such incidents. any of these operational disruptions and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, business delays, negative publicity and could have a material effect on our business. several operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. several operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as the ilim joint venture in russia. in joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. we may not achieve the expected benefits from strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other corporate transactions. our strategy for long-term growth, productivity and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to accomplish prudent strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other corporate transactions and to realize the benefits we expect from such transactions, and we are subject to the risk that we may not achieve the expected benefits. among the benefits we expect from potential as well as recently completed acquisitions and joint ventures are synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities or access to new markets (or a combination thereof), and in the case of divestitures, the realization of proceeds from the sale of businesses and assets to purchasers placing higher strategic value on such businesses and assets than does international paper. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the preceding discussion and note 14 derivatives and hedging activities on pages 70 through 74 ofrisk factors. 7 risk factors. we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. all financial information and statistical measures regarding our 50/50 ilim joint venture in russia ( ilim ), other than historical international paper equity earnings and dividends received by international paper, have been prepared by the management of ilim. in providing this information in this filing, we are relying on the effectiveness of ilim's internal control environment. any projected financial information and statistical measures reflect the current views of ilim management and are subject to the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such projections. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ), or in the company's other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation could affect our profitability. we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third-party companies that transport our goods. the market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. the industries in which we operate experience both economic cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences. fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. in addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber-based products and non-fiber substitutes. these consumer preferences affect the prices of our products. consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. competition in the united states and internationally could negatively impact our financial results. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. product innovations, manufacturing and operating efficiencies, and marketing, distribution and pricing strategies pursued or achieved by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. risks relating to market and economic factors adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial condition and results of operations. general economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. in addition, volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. the level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business. as of december 31, 2015 , international paper had approximately $9.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including $9.3 billion of indebtedness outstanding under our floating and fixed rate notes. there was no indebtedness outstanding under our 7 table of contents credit facilities as of december 31, 2015 . the level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, dividends, share repurchases, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy other obligations; our indebtedness that is subject to variable rates of interest exposes us to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and it may increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, and may make us unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. in addition, we are subject to agreements that require meeting and maintaining certain financial ratios and covenants. a significant or prolonged downturn in general business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests and could require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current business objectives. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of the company's ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. the company's desire to maintain its investment grade rating may cause the company to take certain actions designed to improve its cash flow, including sale of assets, suspension or reduction of our dividend and reductions in capital expenditures and working capital. under the terms of the agreements governing approximately $2.5 billion of our debt as of december 31, 2015 , the applicable interest rate on such debt may increase upon each downgrade in our credit rating. as a result, a downgrade in our credit rating may lead to an increase in our interest expense. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. any such downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur. downgrades in the credit ratings of banks issuing certain letters of credit will increase our cost of maintaining certain indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of deferred taxes. we are subject to the risk that a bank with currently issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting installment notes delivered to temple-inland in connection with temple-inland's 2007 sales of forestlands may be downgraded below a required rating. since 2007, certain banks have fallen below the required ratings threshold and were successfully replaced, or waivers were obtained regarding their replacement. as a result of continuing uncertainty in the banking environment, a number of the letter-of-credit banks currently in place remain subject to risk of downgrade and the number of qualified replacement banks remains limited. the downgrade of one or more of these banks may subject the company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or could result in an acceleration of payments of up to $840 million in deferred income taxes if replacement banks cannot be obtained. the deferred taxes are currently recorded in the company's consolidated financial statements. see note 12, variable interest entities , on pages 64 through 66, and note 10, income taxes , on pages 59 through 61, in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for further information. our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. we have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all u.s. salaried employees hired prior to july 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. we provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our u.s. salaried and certain hourly employees. our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. 8 table of contents pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could increase pension costs. health care reform under the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010 could also increase costs with respect to medical coverage of the company's full-time employees. significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. our pension plans are currently underfunded, and over time we may be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. the benefit liability recorded under the provisions of accounting standards codification (asc) 715, compensation retirement benefits, at december 31, 2015 was $3.6 billion. the amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, including the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. as described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, during the first half of 2016, former employees who are participants in our pension plan will be able to request early payment of their entire plan benefit in the form of a single lump sum payment. while all payments will be made from the plan's trust assets, the target population has a total liability of $3.0 billion. for further information, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources on page 34. changes in international conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, russia, brazil, poland, india, and turkey, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar, downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including governmental subsidies, tax benefits and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over international paper, may also adversely impact our operating results and business prospects in these countries. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law and other laws related to operations in foreign jurisdictions. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and other government requirements that may change in significant ways, and the cost of compliance with such requirements could impact our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and other government requirements -- including, among others, those relating to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment and health care. there can be no assurance that laws, regulations and government requirements will not be changed, applied or interpreted in ways that will require us to modify our operations and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs. for example, we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, boiler mact and naaqss, will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. we could also incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), natural resource damages claims, cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, regulations, codes and common law. the amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of hazardous substances. as another example, we are subject to a number of labor 9 table of contents and employment laws and regulations that could significantly increase our operating costs and reduce our operational flexibility. results of legal proceedings could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. the costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty. although we do not believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims will have a material effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. risks relating to our operations material disruptions at one of our manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial condition. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; the effect of other severe weather conditions on equipment and facilities; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler; damage or disruptions caused by third parties operating on or adjacent to one of our manufacturing facilities; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; widespread outbreak of an illness or any other communicable disease, or any other public health crisis; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. we are subject to information technology risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology used to manage operations and other business processes. our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating and independent third party verification, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to employee error or malfeasance, cyber attacks, or natural disasters. network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation including, but not limited to, interruption to systems availability, denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with international paper. access to internal applications required to plan our operations, source materials, manufacture and ship finished goods and account for orders could be denied or misused. theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential company, employee, customer or vendor information, could stem from such incidents. any of these operational disruptions and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, business delays, negative publicity and could have a material effect on our business. certain operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. certain operations in russia are carried on by a joint venture, ilim. in joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources 10 table of contents as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. we may not achieve the expected benefits from strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other corporate transactions. our strategy for long-term growth, productivity and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to accomplish prudent strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other corporate transactions and to realize the benefits we expect from such transactions, and we are subject to the risk that we may not achieve the expected benefits. among the benefits we expect from potential as well as completed acquisitions and joint ventures are synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities or access to new markets (or a combination thereof), and in the case of divestitures, the realization of proceeds from the sale of businesses and assets to purchasers placing higher strategic value on such businesses and assets than does international paper. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the preceding discussion and note 14 derivatives and hedging activities on pages 67 through 71 ofrisk factors. 7 risk factors. we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ), or in the company's other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation could affect our profitability. we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third-party companies that transport our goods. the market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. the industries in which we operate experience both economic cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences. fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. in addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber-based products and non-fiber substitutes. these consumer preferences affect the prices of our products. consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. competition in the united states and internationally could negatively impact our financial results. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. product innovations, manufacturing and operating efficiencies, and marketing, distribution and pricing strategies 7 table of contents pursued or achieved by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. risks relating to market and economic factors adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial condition and results of operations. general economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. in addition, volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. the level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business. as of december 31, 2016 , international paper had approximately $11.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness. the level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, dividends, share repurchases, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy other obligations; our indebtedness that is subject to variable rates of interest exposes us to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and it may increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, and may make us unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. in addition, we are subject to agreements that require meeting and maintaining certain financial ratios and covenants. a significant or prolonged downturn in general business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests and could require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current business objectives. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of the company's ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. the company's desire to maintain its investment grade rating may cause the company to take certain actions designed to improve its cash flow, including sale of assets, suspension or reduction of our dividend and reductions in capital expenditures and working capital. under the terms of the agreements governing approximately $2.3 billion of our debt as of december 31, 2016 , the applicable interest rate on such debt may increase upon each downgrade in our credit rating below investment grade. as a result, a downgrade in our credit rating below investment grade may lead to an increase in our interest expense. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. any such downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur. downgrades in the credit ratings of banks issuing certain letters of credit will increase our cost of maintaining certain indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of deferred taxes. we are subject to the risk that a bank with currently issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting installment notes delivered to temple-inland in connection with temple-inland's 2007 sales of forestlands may be downgraded below a required rating. since 2007, certain banks have fallen below the required ratings threshold and were successfully replaced, or waivers were obtained regarding their replacement. as a result of continuing uncertainty in the banking environment, a number of 8 table of contents the letter-of-credit banks currently in place remain subject to risk of downgrade and the number of qualified replacement banks remains limited. the downgrade of one or more of these banks may subject the company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or could result in an acceleration of payments of up to $831 million in deferred income taxes if replacement banks cannot be obtained. the deferred taxes are currently recorded in the company's consolidated financial statements. see note 12, variable interest entities , on pages 64 through 66, and note 10, income taxes , on pages 59 through 61, in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for further information. our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. we have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all u.s. salaried employees hired prior to july 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. we provide retiree health care benefits to certain former u.s. hourly employees, as well as financial assistance towards the cost of individual retiree medical coverage for certain former u.s. salaried employees. our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could increase pension costs. health care reform under the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010, and modifications thereto, could also increase costs with respect to medical coverage of the company's full-time employees. significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. our pension plans are currently underfunded, and over time we may be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. the benefit liability recorded under the provisions of accounting standards codification (asc) 715, compensation retirement benefits, at december 31, 2016 was $3.4 billion . the amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, including the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. changes in international conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, russia, brazil, poland, india, and turkey, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar, downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including governmental subsidies, tax benefits and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over international paper, may also adversely impact our operating results and business prospects in these countries. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law and other laws related to operations in foreign jurisdictions. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and other government requirements that may change in significant ways, and the cost of compliance with such requirements could impact our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and other government requirements -- including, among others, those relating to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment, data privacy, and health care. there can be no assurance that laws, regulations and government requirements will not be changed, applied or interpreted in ways that will require us to modify our operations and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs. for example, we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and 9 table of contents regulations. there can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, boiler mact and naaqss, will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. we could also incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), natural resource damages claims, cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, regulations, codes and common law. the amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of hazardous substances. as another example, we are subject to a number of labor and employment laws and regulations that could significantly increase our operating costs and reduce our operational flexibility. results of legal proceedings could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. the costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty. although we do not believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims will have a material effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. risks relating to our operations material disruptions at one of our manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial condition. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; the effect of other severe weather conditions on equipment and facilities; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler or other equipment; damage or disruptions caused by third parties operating on or adjacent to one of our manufacturing facilities; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; widespread outbreak of an illness or any other communicable disease, or any other public health crisis; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. for example, on january 22, 2017, we experienced significant structural damage to the largest pulp digester as well as the power house at our pensacola pulp and paper mill in cantonment, florida. we restarted the power house and resumed partial operations producing fluff pulp at the mill using a series of small batch digesters within a couple weeks. repairing the damaged digester will take more time, however, and we know that we will not be able to resume full operations producing containerboard at the mill during the first quarter of 2017. we are subject to information technology risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology used to manage operations and other business processes. our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting. despite careful security and controls design, 10 table of contents implementation, updating and independent third party verification, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to employee error or malfeasance, cyber attacks, or natural disasters. network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation including, but not limited to, interruption to systems availability, denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with international paper. access to internal applications required to plan our operations, source materials, manufacture and ship finished goods and account for orders could be denied or misused. theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential company, employee, customer or vendor information, could stem from such incidents. any of these operational disruptions and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, business delays, negative publicity and could have a material effect on our business. certain operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. certain operations in russia are carried on by a joint venture, ilim. in joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so we receive only our portion of those benefits. we may not achieve the expected benefits from acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other corporate transactions. our strategy for long-term growth, productivity and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to accomplish prudent acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other corporate transactions and to realize the benefits we expect from such transactions, and we are subject to the risk that we may not achieve the expected benefits. among the benefits we expect from potential as well as completed acquisitions and joint ventures are synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities or access to new markets (or a combination thereof), and in the case of divestitures, the realization of proceeds from the sale of businesses and assets to purchasers who place higher strategic value on such businesses and assets than does international paper. on december 1, 2016, for example, we completed our acquisition of weyerhaeuser's pulp business. the success of the acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating the acquired business with our existing businesses. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming, and we may not accomplish the integration of the business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. potential integration risks include, among other things, our ability to successfully implement our business plan for the combined business and retain key customers, suppliers and employees. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the preceding discussion and note 14 derivatives and hedging activities on pages 67 through 70 ofrisk factors. 7 risk factors. we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ), or in the company's other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation could affect our profitability. we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third-party companies that transport our goods. the market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. the industries in which we operate experience both economic cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences. fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. in addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our products. these consumer preferences affect the prices of our products. consequently, our financial results are sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. competition in the united states and internationally could negatively impact our financial results. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. product innovations, manufacturing and operating efficiencies, and marketing, distribution and pricing strategies pursued or achieved by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. risks relating to market and economic factors adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial condition and results of operations. general economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. in addition, volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. the level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business. as of december 31, 2017 , international paper had approximately $11.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness. the level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, dividends, share repurchases, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including 7 table of contents operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy other obligations; our indebtedness that is subject to variable rates of interest exposes us to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and it may increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, and may make us unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. in addition, we are subject to agreements that require meeting and maintaining certain financial ratios and covenants. a significant or prolonged downturn in general business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests and could require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current business objectives. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of the company's ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. the company's desire to maintain its investment grade rating may cause the company to take certain actions designed to improve its cash flow, including sale of assets, suspension or reduction of our dividend and reductions in capital expenditures and working capital. under the terms of the agreements governing approximately $1.4 billion of our debt as of december 31, 2017 , the applicable interest rate on such debt may increase upon each downgrade in our credit rating below investment grade. as a result, a downgrade in our credit rating below investment grade may lead to an increase in our interest expense. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. any such downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur. downgrades in the credit ratings of banks issuing certain letters of credit will increase our cost of maintaining certain indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of deferred taxes. we are subject to the risk that a bank with currently issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting installment notes delivered to temple-inland in connection with temple-inland's 2007 sales of forestlands may be downgraded below a required rating. since 2007, certain banks have fallen below the required ratings threshold and were successfully replaced, or waivers were obtained regarding their replacement. as a result of continuing uncertainty in the banking environment, a number of the letter-of-credit banks currently in place remain subject to risk of downgrade and the number of qualified replacement banks remains limited. the downgrade of one or more of these banks may subject the company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or could result in an acceleration of payments of up to $538 million in deferred income taxes if replacement banks cannot be obtained. the deferred taxes are currently recorded in the company's consolidated financial statements. see note 12, variable interest entities , on pages 63 through 64 , and note 10, income taxes , on pages 57 through 60 , in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for further information. our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. we have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all u.s. salaried employees hired prior to july 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. we provide retiree health care benefits to certain former u.s. hourly employees, as well as financial assistance towards the cost of individual retiree medical coverage for certain former u.s. salaried employees. our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could increase pension costs. our pension plans are currently underfunded, and over time we may be 8 table of contents required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. the benefit liability recorded under the provisions of accounting standards codification (asc) 715, compensation retirement benefits, at december 31, 2017 was $2.0 billion . the amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, including the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. changes in international conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, russia, brazil, poland, india, and turkey, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar, downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including governmental subsidies, tax benefits and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over international paper, may also adversely impact our operating results and business prospects in these countries. likewise, disruption in existing trade agreements (e.g., nafta) or increased trade friction between countries (e.g., the u.s. and china) could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations by restricting the free flow of goods and services across borders. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law and other laws related to operations in foreign jurisdictions. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and other government requirements that may change in significant ways, and the cost of compliance with such requirements could impact our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and other government requirements -- including, among others, those relating to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment, data privacy, tax and health care. there can be no assurance that laws, regulations and government requirements will not be changed, applied or interpreted in ways that will require us to modify our operations and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs. for example, we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. we could also incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), natural resource damages claims, cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, regulations, codes and common law. the amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of hazardous substances. as another example, we are subject to a number of labor and employment laws and regulations that could significantly increase our operating costs and reduce our operational flexibility. additionally, changing privacy laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere, including the adoption of the european union of the general data protection regulation (gdpr), which will become effective may 2018, creates new individual privacy rights and imposes increased obligations on companies handling personal data. compliance with the stringent rules under gdpr will require an extensive review of our global data processing systems, which is ongoing. a failure to comply with gdpr could result in fines up to 20 million euros or 4% of annual global revenues, whichever is higher. 9 table of contents as a final example, in december 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act"). the tax act makes broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code. for a discussion of the immediate and potential impacts to the company of the tax act and the uncertainties around the company's current estimates of such impacts, see note 10, income taxes . results of legal proceedings could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. the costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty. although we do not believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims will have a material effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. risks relating to our operations material disruptions at one of our manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial condition. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; the effect of other severe weather conditions on equipment and facilities; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler or other equipment; damage or disruptions caused by third parties operating on or adjacent to one of our manufacturing facilities; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; widespread outbreak of an illness or any other communicable disease, or any other public health crisis; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. we are subject to information technology risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology used to manage operations and other business processes. our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating and independent third party verification, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to employee error or malfeasance, cyber attacks, or natural disasters. network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation including, but not limited to, interruption to systems availability, denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with international paper. access to internal applications required to plan our operations, source materials, manufacture and ship finished goods and account for orders could be denied or misused. theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential company, employee, customer or vendor information, could stem from such incidents. any of these operational disruptions and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, business delays, negative publicity and could have a material effect on our business. 10 table of contents certain operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. certain operations in russia are carried on by a joint venture, ilim. in joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so we receive only our portion of those benefits. we may not achieve the expected benefits from acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other corporate transactions. our strategy for long-term growth, productivity and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to accomplish prudent acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other corporate transactions and to realize the benefits we expect from such transactions, and we are subject to the risk that we may not achieve the expected benefits. among the benefits we expect from potential as well as completed acquisitions and joint ventures are synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities or access to new markets (or a combination thereof), and in the case of divestitures, the realization of proceeds from the sale of businesses and assets to purchasers who place higher strategic value on such businesses and assets than does international paper. on january 1, 2018, for example, we completed a transaction transferring our north american consumer packaging business to graphic packaging in exchange for, among other things, an equity interest in the combined business of 20.5%, as of immediately following the closing, and the assumption by the combined business of $660 million of indebtedness that we incurred prior to closing of the transaction. the success of the transaction will depend, in part, on the financial performance of the combined business and on the ability of the combined business to realize anticipated growth opportunities, cost savings and other synergies. the success of the combined business in realizing these growth opportunities, cost savings and other synergies, and the timing of this realization, will depend on the successful integration of our north american consumer packaging business with graphic packaging's business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the preceding discussion and note 14 derivatives and hedging activities on pages 65 through 69 ofrisk factors. 6 risk factors. we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. item 1a. risk factors the company faces risks in the normal course of business and through global, regional, and local events that could have an adverse impact on its reputation, operations, and financial performance. the board of directors exercises oversight of the company's enterprise risk management program, which includes strategic, operational and financial matters, as well as compliance and legal risks. the audit and finance committee coordinates the risk oversight role exercised by the board's standing committees and management, and it receives updates on the risk management processes twice per year. in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ), or in the company's other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation could affect our profitability. we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally biomass, natural gas, electricity and fuel oil) and third-party companies that transport our goods. the market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. the global supply and demand for recycled fiber may be affected by trade policies between countries, individual governments' legislation and regulations, as well as changes in the global economy. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause occasional significant fluctuations in recycled fiber prices. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. the availability of labor and the market price for diesel fuel may affect our costs for third-party transportation. our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. the industries in which we operate experience both economic cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences. fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. in addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our products. these consumer preferences affect the prices of our products. consequently, our financial results are sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. competition in the united states and internationally could negatively impact our financial results. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. product innovations, manufacturing and operating efficiencies, and marketing, distribution and pricing strategies pursued or achieved by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. 6 table of contents risks relating to market and economic factors adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial condition and results of operations. general economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. in addition, volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. changes in international conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, russia, brazil, poland, india, and turkey, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar, downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences or rulings, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including governmental subsidies, tax benefits and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over international paper, may also adversely impact our operating results and business prospects in these countries. likewise, disruption in existing trade agreements or increased trade friction between countries (e.g., the u.s. and china) could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations by restricting the free flow of goods and services across borders. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law and other laws related to operations in foreign jurisdictions. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. the level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business. as of december 31, 2018 , international paper had approximately $10.7 billion of outstanding indebtedness. the level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, dividends, share repurchases, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy other obligations; our indebtedness that is subject to variable rates and, in the instance such variable rates use the london interbank offered rate (libor) as a benchmark, exposes us to a possible increase in debt service obligations in the event that the method for determining libor changes, libor is replaced by an alternative reference rate or libor is phased out altogether; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and it may increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, and may make us unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. in addition, we are subject to agreements that require meeting and maintaining certain financial ratios and covenants. a significant or prolonged downturn in general business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests and could require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current business objectives. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse 7 table of contents effect on the market price of our securities. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of the company's ratings below investment grade will likely eliminate our ability to access the commercial paper market, may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. the company's desire to maintain its investment grade rating may cause the company to take certain actions designed to improve its cash flow, including sale of assets, suspension or reduction of our dividend and reductions in capital expenditures and working capital. under the terms of the agreements governing approximately $1.4 billion of our debt as of december 31, 2018 , the applicable interest rate on such debt may increase upon each downgrade in our credit rating below investment grade. as a result, a downgrade in our credit rating below investment grade may lead to an increase in our interest expense. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. any such downgrade, suspension or withdrawal of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur. downgrades in the credit ratings of banks issuing certain letters of credit will increase our cost of maintaining certain indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of deferred taxes. we are subject to the risk that a bank with currently issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting installment notes delivered to temple-inland in connection with temple-inland's 2007 sales of forestlands may be downgraded below a required rating. since 2007, certain banks have fallen below the required ratings threshold and were successfully replaced, or waivers were obtained regarding their replacement. as a result of continuing uncertainty in the banking environment, a number of the letter-of-credit banks currently in place remain subject to risk of downgrade and the number of qualified replacement banks remains limited. the downgrade of one or more of these banks may subject the company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or could result in an acceleration of payments of up to $538 million in deferred income taxes if replacement banks cannot be obtained. the deferred taxes are currently recorded in the company's consolidated financial statements. see note 14, variable interest entities , on pages 65 and 66 , and note 12, income taxes , on pages 58 through 62 , in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for further information. our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. we have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all u.s. salaried employees hired prior to july 1, 2004 (or later for certain acquired populations, as described in note 18. retirement plans , on pages 70 through 77 , in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data ) and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. the company has frozen participation under these plans for u.s. salaried employees, including credited services and compensation on or after january 1, 2019; however, the pension freeze does not affect benefits accrued through december 31, 2018. we provide retiree health care benefits to certain former u.s. hourly employees, as well as financial assistance towards the cost of individual retiree medical coverage for certain former u.s. salaried employees. our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could increase pension costs. our pension plans are currently underfunded on a projected benefit obligation basis, and over time we may be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. the benefit liability recorded under the provisions of accounting standards codification (asc) 715, compensation retirement benefits, at december 31, 2018 was $1.8 billion . the amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, including the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. risks relating to our operations material disruptions at one of our manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting 8 table of contents customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial condition. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; the effect of other severe weather conditions on equipment and facilities; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler or other equipment; damage or disruptions caused by third parties operating on or adjacent to one of our manufacturing facilities; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; widespread outbreak of an illness or any other communicable disease, or any other public health crisis; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. certain operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. certain operations in russia are carried on by a joint venture, ilim. in joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so we receive only our portion of those benefits. we may not achieve the expected benefits from acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, capital investments and other corporate transactions. our strategy for long-term growth, productivity and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to accomplish prudent acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, capital investments and other corporate transactions and to realize the benefits we expect from such transactions, and we are subject to the risk that we may not achieve the expected benefits. among the benefits we expect from potential as well as completed acquisitions and joint ventures are synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities or access to new markets (or a combination thereof), and in the case of divestitures, the realization of proceeds from the sale of businesses and assets to purchasers who place higher strategic value on such businesses and assets than does international paper. in january 2018, for example, we completed a transaction transferring our north american consumer packaging business to graphic packaging in exchange for, among other things, an equity interest in the combined business of 20.5%. the success of the transaction and the value of our equity interest will depend on variables we do not control, such as the financial performance of the combined business and on the ability of the combined business to realize anticipated growth opportunities, cost savings and other synergies. we are subject to information technology risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology used to manage operations and other business processes. our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating and independent third party verification, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to employee error or malfeasance, cyber attacks, or natural disasters. network, system, application and data 9 table of contents breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation including, but not limited to, interruption to systems availability, denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with international paper. access to internal applications required to plan our operations, source materials, manufacture and ship finished goods and account for orders could be denied or misused. theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential company, employee, customer or vendor information, could stem from such incidents. any of these operational disruptions and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, business delays, negative publicity, government enforcement and could have a material effect on our business. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and other government requirements that may change in significant ways, and the cost of compliance with such requirements could impact our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and other government requirements -- including, among others, those relating to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment, data privacy, tax, trade and health care. there can be no assurance that laws, regulations and government requirements will not be changed, applied or interpreted in ways that will require us to modify our operations and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs. for example, we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. we could also incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), natural resource damages claims, cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, regulations, codes and common law. the amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of hazardous substances. as another example, we are subject to a number of labor and employment laws and regulations that could significantly increase our operating costs and reduce our operational flexibility. additionally, we are subject to complex and evolving u.s. and international privacy laws and regulations, including those pertaining to the handling of personal data, such as the general data protection regulation (gdpr). government authorities around the world are considering, or are in the process of implementing, new data protection regulations. many of these laws and regulations are subject to uncertain application, interpretation or enforcement standards that could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased operating costs or other impacts on our businesses. as a final example, the application of tax law is subject to interpretation and is subject to audit by taxing authorities. additionally, administrative guidance can be incomplete or vary from legislative intent, and therefore the application of the tax law is uncertain. while we believe the positions reported by the company comply with relevant tax laws and regulations, taxing authorities could interpret our application of certain laws and regulations differently. we are currently subject to tax audits in the u.s., brazil, poland, russia and other taxing jurisdictions around the world. in some cases, we have appealed and may continue to appeal, assessments by taxing authorities in the court system. as such, tax controversy matters may result in previously unrecorded tax expenses, higher future tax expenses or the assessment of interest and penalties. results of legal proceedings could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. the costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty. although we do not believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims will have a material effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the preceding discussion and note 16 derivatives and hedging activities on pages 67 through 70 ofrisk factors. 6 risk factors. in addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. item 1a. risk factors the company faces risks in the normal course of business and through global, regional, and local events that could have an adverse impact on its reputation, operations, and financial performance. the board of directors exercises oversight of the company's enterprise risk management program, which includes strategic, operational and financial matters, as well as compliance and legal risks. the audit and finance committee coordinates the risk oversight role exercised by the board's standing committees and management, and it receives updates on the risk management processes twice per year. in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ), or in the company's other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. if any of the events or circumstances described in any of the following risk factors occurs, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected, and our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statements we make in any public disclosures. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation could affect our profitability. we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally biomass, natural gas, electricity and fuel oil) and third-party companies that transport our goods. the market price of virgin wood 6 table of contents fiber varies based upon availability and source. the global supply and demand for recycled fiber may be affected by trade policies between countries, individual governments' legislation and regulations, as well as changes in the global economy. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause significant fluctuations in recycled fiber prices. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. the availability of labor and the market price for fuel may affect our costs for third-party transportation. our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. the industries in which we operate experience both economic cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences. fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. in addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber-based products and non-fiber substitutes. moreover, consumer preferences are constantly changing based on, among other factors, cost, convenience and health, environmental and social concerns and perceptions. these consumer preferences affect the prices of our products. consequently, our financial results are sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. competition in the united states and internationally could negatively impact our financial results. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. product innovations, manufacturing and operating efficiencies, and marketing, distribution and pricing strategies pursued or achieved by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. risks relating to market and economic factors adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial condition and results of operations. general economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. in addition, volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. changes in international conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, russia, brazil, poland, and turkey, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar, downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences or rulings, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions impacting matters such as sustainability, environmental regulations and trade policies and agreements, could negatively affect our financial results. in addition, outbreak of a widespread health epidemic, such as a coronavirus, influenza and other highly communicable diseases or viruses, could also adversely impact our operating results and business prospects, including if operations of our customers are adversely impacted. in this regard, while we do not currently expect that our financial results will be significantly and adversely affected by the covid-19 virus that was first detected in wuhan, china in december 2019, there continue to be significant uncertainties associated with the covid-19 virus, including with respect to the ultimate geographic spread of the virus, the severity of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, and actions that may be taken by chinese or other governmental authorities to contain the covid-19 virus or to treat its impact, and the extent to which the covid-19 outbreak may impact our financial results, including as the result of its possible impact on the chinese or global economy, is not certain. trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including governmental subsidies, tax benefits and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over international paper, may also adversely impact our operating results and business prospects in these countries. likewise, disruption in existing trade agreements or increased trade friction between countries (e.g., the u.s. and china), which can result in tariffs, could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations by restricting the free flow of goods and services across borders. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law and other laws related to operations in foreign jurisdictions. for 7 table of contents example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad, and the u.s. department of treasury's office of foreign asset control and other non-u.s. government entities maintain economic sanctions targeting various countries, persons and entities. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. the level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business. as of december 31, 2019 , international paper had approximately $9.8 billion of outstanding indebtedness. the level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, dividends, share repurchases, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy other obligations; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and it may increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, and may make us unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. in addition, we are subject to agreements governing our indebtedness that require us to meet and maintain certain financial ratios and covenants. a significant or prolonged downturn in general business and economic conditions, or other significant adverse developments with respect to our results of operations or financial condition, may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests and could require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current business objectives. moreover, the restrictions associated with these financial ratios and covenants may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and may make it difficult for us to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. additionally, despite these restrictions, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility and otherwise increase the risks associated with our indebtedness as noted above. moreover, certain of our variable rate debt uses the london interbank offering rate ( libor ) as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. the u.k. financial conduct authority announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. in addition, other regulators have suggested reforming or replacing other benchmark rates. the discontinuation, reform or replacement of libor or any other benchmark rates may have an unpredictable impact on contractual mechanics in the credit markets or cause disruption to the broader financial markets. additionally, uncertainty as to the nature of such potential discontinuation, reform or replacement may negatively impact the cost of our variable rate debt. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of the company's ratings below investment grade will likely eliminate our ability to access the commercial paper market, may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. the company's desire to maintain its investment grade rating may cause the company to take certain actions designed to improve its cash flow, including sale of assets, suspension or reduction of our dividend and reductions in capital expenditures and working capital. under the terms of the agreements governing approximately $1.4 billion of our debt as of december 31, 2019 , the applicable interest rate on such debt may increase upon each downgrade in our credit rating below investment grade. as a result, a downgrade in our credit rating below investment grade may lead to an increase in our interest expense. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. any such downgrade, 8 table of contents suspension or withdrawal of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur. downgrades in the credit ratings of banks issuing certain letters of credit will increase our cost of maintaining certain indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of deferred taxes. we are subject to the risk that a bank with currently issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting installment notes, including those delivered to temple-inland in connection with temple-inland's 2007 sales of forestlands, may be downgraded below a required rating. since 2007, certain banks have fallen below the required ratings threshold and were successfully replaced, or waivers were obtained regarding their replacement. as a result of continuing uncertainty in the banking environment, a number of the letter-of-credit banks currently in place remain subject to risk of downgrade and the number of qualified replacement banks remains limited. the downgrade of one or more of these banks may subject the company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or could result in an acceleration of payments of up to $485 million in deferred income taxes if replacement banks cannot be obtained. the deferred taxes are currently recorded in the company's consolidated financial statements. see note 15, variable interest entities , on pages 68 through 70 , and note 13, income taxes , on pages 62 through 65 , in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for further information. our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. we have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all u.s. salaried employees hired prior to july 1, 2004 (or later for certain acquired populations, as described in note 19. retirement plans , on pages 75 through 81 , in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data ) and substantially all hourly union and non-union employees regardless of hire date. the company has frozen participation under these plans for u.s. salaried employees, including credited services and compensation on or after january 1, 2019; however, the pension freeze does not affect benefits accrued through december 31, 2018. we provide retiree health care benefits to certain former u.s. employees, as well as financial assistance towards the cost of individual retiree medical coverage for certain former u.s. salaried employees. our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may impact pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could increase pension costs. drivers for fluctuating health costs include unit cost changes, health care utilization by participants, and potential legislative impacts and government oversight. our pension plans are currently underfunded on a projected benefit obligation basis, and over time we may be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. the benefit liability recorded under the provisions of accounting standards codification (asc) 715, compensation retirement benefits, at december 31, 2019 was $1.6 billion . the amount and timing of future contributions, which could be material, will depend upon a number of factors, including the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. risks relating to our operations material disruptions at one of our manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial condition. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; the effect of other severe weather conditions on equipment and facilities; disruption in the supply of raw materials or other manufacturing inputs; terrorism or threats of terrorism; information system disruptions or failures due to any number of causes, including cyber-attacks; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; 9 table of contents unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler or other equipment; damage or disruptions caused by third parties operating on or adjacent to one of our manufacturing facilities; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; a widespread outbreak of an illness or any other communicable disease, such as the recent outbreak of the covid-19 virus in china, or any other public health crisis; failure of our third party service providers and business partners to satisfactorily fulfill their commitments and responsibilities in a timely manner and in accordance with agreed upon terms; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. certain operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. certain operations in russia are carried on by a joint venture, ilim. in joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so we receive only our portion of those benefits. we may not achieve the expected benefits from strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, capital investments and other corporate transactions that we have pursued or may pursue. our strategy for long-term growth, productivity and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to accomplish prudent acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures, capital investments and other corporate transactions that we may pursue and to realize the benefits we expect from such transactions, and we are subject to the risk that we may not achieve the expected benefits. this failure could require us to record an impairment charge for goodwill or other intangible assets, which could lead to decreased assets and reduced net earnings. among the benefits we expect from potential as well as completed acquisitions and joint ventures are synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities or access to new markets (or a combination thereof), and in the case of divestitures, the realization of proceeds from the sale of businesses and assets to purchasers who place higher strategic value on such businesses and assets than does international paper. corporate transactions of this nature which we may pursue involve a number of special risks, including with respect to our inability to realize our business goals with respect to such transactions as noted above, the focus of our management's attention on these transactions and the assimilation of acquired businesses into our operations, the demands on our financial, operational and information technology systems resulting from acquired businesses, and the possibility that we may become responsible for substantial contingent or unanticipated legal liabilities as the result of acquisitions or other corporate transactions. we are subject to information technology risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology used to manage operations and other business processes. our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating and independent third party verification, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers or joint venture partners, could become subject to employee error or malfeasance, cyber attacks by common hackers, criminal groups or nation-state organizations or social activist (hacktivist) organizations, geopolitical events, natural disasters, failures or impairments of telecommunications networks or other catastrophic events. network, system, application and data breaches 10 table of contents could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation including, but not limited to, interruption to systems availability, denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with international paper. access to applications required to plan our operations, source materials, manufacture and ship finished goods and account for orders could be denied or misused. theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential company, employee, customer or vendor information, could stem from such incidents. any of these operational disruptions and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, business delays, negative publicity and could have a material effect on our business. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs we are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and other government requirements that may change in significant ways, and the cost of compliance with such requirements could impact our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal and state and non-u.s. laws, regulations and other government requirements -- including, among others, those relating to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment, data privacy, tax, trade and health care. there can be no assurance that laws, regulations and government requirements will not be changed, applied or interpreted in ways that will require us to modify our operations and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs. for example, we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations. our environmental expenditures include, among other areas, those related to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater, including situations where we have been identified as a potentially responsible party. moreover, we may be directly impacted by, and are working to manage, the risks and costs to us, our customers and our vendors of the effects of climate change, greenhouse gases, and the availability of energy and water resources. these risks include the potentially adverse impact on forestlands, which are a key resource in the production of our products, increased product costs and a change in the types of products that customers purchase. we also face risks arising from the increased public focus, including by governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters, such as packaging and waste, deforestation, and land use. these risks also include the increased pressure to make commitments, set targets, or establish additional goals and take actions to meet them. these risks could expose us to market, operational, and execution costs or risks. there can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. we could also incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), natural resource damages claims, cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, regulations, codes and common law. the amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of hazardous substances. additionally, we are subject to complex and evolving u.s. and international privacy laws and regulations, including those pertaining to the handling of personal data, such as the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) and the california consumer privacy act of 2018 ( ccpa ). the gdpr, which became effective on may 25, 2018, with respect to all member states of the european union, includes operational requirements for companies receiving or processing personal data of eu residents that are partially different from those that had previously been in place and includes significant penalties for noncompliance. the ccpa, which went into effect on january 1, 2020, affords california residents and households expanded privacy protections. moreover, governmental authorities around the world are considering, or are in the process of implementing, new data protection regulations. many of these laws and regulations are subject to uncertain application, interpretation or enforcement standards that could result in claims, changes to our business practices, data processing and security systems, penalties, increased operating costs or other impacts on our businesses. the recently enacted laws often provide for civil penalties for violations, as well as private rights of action for data breaches that may increase data breach litigation. ip proactively uses internal and external resources to monitor compliance with relevant legislation and continually evaluates and, where necessary, modifies its data processing practices and policies in order to comply with evolving privacy laws. nevertheless, relevant regulatory authorities could determine that our data handling practices fail to address all the requirements of certain new laws, which could subject us to penalties and/or litigation. in addition, there is no assurance that our security controls over personal data, the training of employees and vendors 11 table of contents on data privacy and data security, and the policies, procedures and practices we implemented or may implement in the future will prevent the improper disclosure of personal data. improper disclosure of personal data in violation of the gdpr, the ccpa and/or of other personal data protection laws could harm our reputation, cause loss of consumer confidence, subject us to government enforcement actions (including fines), or result in private litigation against us, which could result in loss of revenue, increased costs, liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, all of which could negatively affect our business and operating results. as a final example, the application of tax law is subject to interpretation and is subject to audit by taxing authorities. additionally, administrative guidance can be incomplete or vary from legislative intent, and therefore the application of the tax law is uncertain. while we believe the positions reported by the company comply with relevant tax laws and regulations, taxing authorities could interpret our application of certain laws and regulations differently. we are currently subject to tax audits in the u.s., brazil, poland, russia and other taxing jurisdictions around the world. in some cases, we have appealed and may continue to appeal, assessments by taxing authorities in the court system. as such, tax controversy matters may result in previously unrecorded tax expenses, higher future tax expenses or the assessment of interest and penalties. results of legal proceedings could have a material effect on our consolidated financial results. we are a party to various legal, regulatory and governmental proceedings and other related matters, including with respect to environmental matters. in addition, we are and may become subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown, which may relate to past, present and future facts, events, circumstances and occurrences. should an unfavorable outcome occur in connection with our legal, regulatory or governmental proceedings or other loss contingencies, or if we become subject to any such loss contingencies in the future, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the preceding discussion and note 17 derivatives and hedging activities on pages 71 through 75 ofquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the discussion under item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 25 and underquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the discussion under item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 30 and underrisk factors 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the discussion under item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 34, and underrisk factors 4 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the discussion under item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 34, and underrisk factors. 6 risk factors in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations), or in the company other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials and energy . we rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. we may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, and productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. changes in transportation availability or costs . our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both domestically and internationally. in the united states, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could adversely affect our earnings, and/or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. while we have benefited from supply-chain initiatives that reduce usage and improve transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. competition . we face intense competition, both domestically and internationally, for our products in all of our operating segments. because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our revenues and financial results. product mix . our results may be affected by a change in the company sales mix. our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. if actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our operations and our financial results could be negatively impacted. pricing . our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and/or appropriate. delays in the realization of these price increases would negatively impact our results. moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position and our share of industry sales, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. demand for our products . demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in north america, europe, latin america and asia. changes in industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and our financial results. risks relating to market and economic factors changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations . maintaining an investment grade credit rating for our long-term debt continues to be an important element in our overall financial strategy. our debt ratings are, from time to time, reviewed by the rating organizations and remain subject to change, and a downgrade in rating of our debt could increase our interest cost and negatively affect our earnings. pension and health care costs . our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. natural disasters . the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flooding or other unanticipated problems, could cause operational disruptions which could impair our profitability. changes in international conditions . our results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries in which we have 6 manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, brazil, russia, poland and china, where substantial manufacturing facilities exist, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. changes in currency exchange rates . we are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the u.s. dollar. from time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. there can, however, be no assurance that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. risks relating to the company transformation plan the ability to successfully execute sales transactions currently under contract . the company ability to successfully execute sales transactions under contract (including contracts executed pursuant to the transformation plan) and to realize the anticipated sales proceeds is dependent upon many factors, including the ability to successfully consummate the transactions without a purchase price adjustment, the successful fulfillment (or waiver) of all conditions set forth in the sales agreements, and the successful closing of the transactions within the estimated timeframes. the ability to invest proceeds with attractive financial returns . the company will selectively seek attractive investment opportunities for a portion of the proceeds from divestitures. the company may be unable to identify and negotiate acceptable investments with attractive returns. ability to realize anticipated profit improvement from the transformation plan . the profitability of the company two platform businesses, uncoated papers (including distribution) and packaging, is subject to variable demand and the company ability to execute internal profit improvement initiatives, including ongoing manufacturing, supply chain and overhead cost reduction initiatives, as well as volume/mix improvements. there can be no assurance that profit improvements will be achieved. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations . our operations are subject to significant regulation by federal, state and local environmental and safety authorities, both domestically and internationally. there can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will, if regulations change, be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. results of legal proceedings . the costs and other effects of pending litigation against the company cannot be determined with certainty. although the disclosure in item 3. legal proceedings contains management current views of the impact such litigation will have on our financial results, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. this discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the many contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the discussion under item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 42, and underrisk factors. 5 risk factors in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations), or in the company other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw material and energy. we rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene) and energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) in our manufacturing process. our ability to increase earnings has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials and energy sources. we may not be able to fully offset the effects of higher raw material or energy costs through hedging arrangements, price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. changes in transportation availability or costs. our business depends on the transportation of a large number of products, both in the united states and internationally. in the united states, an increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could negatively impact our financial results, and/or a reduction in transport availability in truck and rail could negatively impact our ability to provide products to our customers in a timely manner. while we have benefited from supply chain initiatives that reduce usage and improve transportation availability, there is no assurance that such availability can continue to be effectively managed in the future. competition. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. because our outlook depends on a forecast of our share of industry sales, an unexpected reduction in that share due to pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. product mix. our results may be affected by a change in the company sales mix. our outlook assumes a certain volume mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. if actual results vary from this projected volume and product mix of sales, our financial results could be negatively impacted. pricing. our outlook assumes that we will be successful in implementing previously announced price increases as well as other price increases that we may in the future deem necessary and/or appropriate. delays in the realization of these price increases would negatively impact our financial results. moreover, price discounting, if required to maintain our competitive position and our share of industry sales, could result in lower than anticipated price realizations. demand for our products. demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions in north america, europe, russia, latin america, asia and north africa. changes in industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels, interest rates and currency exchange rates may adversely affect our businesses and our financial results. risks relating to market and economic factors changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include our operating results, actions that we take, their view of 5 table of contents the general outlook for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy. actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing the company on a watch list for possible future downgrading. downgrading the credit rating of our debt securities or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading would likely increase our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. availability of credit. the recent turmoil in the credit markets and the limited availability of credit may have a negative financial impact on some of our customers and potential buyers of our remaining forestlands. this may affect the timing and amount of sales of our products and the timing of sales of our remaining forestlands. pension and health care costs. our pension and health care costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase or decrease pension costs. changes in international conditions. our financial results could be substantially affected by foreign market risks in the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, brazil, russia, poland and china, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. downturns in economic activity, adverse foreign tax consequences or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. changes in currency exchange rates. we are impacted by the movement of various currencies relative to the u.s. dollar. from time to time, we may hedge a portion of the risk from our transactions and commitments denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies when we deem it appropriate to do so. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to fully protect ourselves against substantial foreign currency fluctuations. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations. our operations are subject to u.s. and international laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. there can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing and new regulations, including costs associated with global climate change regulation, will not require significant capital expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will, if regulations change, be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. results of legal proceedings. the costs and other effects of pending litigation against the company cannot be determined with certainty. although the disclosure in item 3. legal proceedings contains management current view that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. risks relating to the company operations material disruptions of manufacturing. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial results. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: unscheduled maintenance outages prolonged power failures an equipment failure a chemical spill or release explosion of a boiler the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply labor difficulties disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels 6 table of contents fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes terrorism or threats of terrorism domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world other operational problems any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and have a negative effect on our financial results. ability to realize non-price profit improvement. the company has made a commitment to deliver on profit improvement initiatives, including ongoing manufacturing, supply chain and overhead cost reduction initiatives, as well as volume/mix improvements. there can be no assurance that any or all of these profit improvements will be achieved. this discussion of uncertainties is by no means exhaustive, but is designed to highlight important factors that may impact our outlook. obvious general economic factors throughout the world (such as inflation, a sudden drop in consumer or business confidence, or an unexpected collapse in stock markets) do not warrant further discussion, but are noted to further emphasize the many contingencies that may cause our actual results to differ from those currently anticipated. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the discussion under item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 41 and 42, and underrisk factors. 6 risk factors in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations), or in the company other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation could affect our profitability. we rely heavily on certain raw materials (principally wood fiber, caustic soda and polyethylene), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third party companies that transport our goods. our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. the industries in which we operate experience both economic cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences. fluctuations in the prices of and the demand for our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. in addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber-based products and non-fiber substitutes. consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. competition in the united states and internationally could negatively impact our financial results. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. risks relating to market and economic factors continued adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our prod ucts and our financial condition and results of operation. general economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. in addition, continued volatility in the capital and credit markets, which 6 table of contents impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy and a downgrade of our company ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities and increase our cost of borrowing. in light of current economic conditions, the company desire to maintain its investment grade rating may cause the company to take certain actions designed to improve its cash flow, including sale of assets, reduction or suspension of the dividend and further reductions in capital expenditures and working capital. similarly, we are subject to the risk that one of the banks that has issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting the installment notes issued in connection with sales of our forestlands is downgraded below a required rating. if this were to happen, it may increase the cost to the company of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or could result in an acceleration of deferred taxes if a replacement bank cannot be obtained. the impairment of financial institutions may adversely affect us. we have exposure to counterparties with which we execute transactions, including u.s. and foreign commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks, investment funds and other financial institutions, some of which may be exposed to ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks, especially in connection with recent financial market turmoil. a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a counterparty may adversely affect our access to capital, liquidity position, future business and results of operations. our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. we have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all salaried u.s. employees hired prior to july 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. we provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our u.s. salaried and certain hourly employees. our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase pension and health care costs. significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial conditions and results of operations. our pension plans are currently underfunded, and over time we will be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. the benefit liability recorded under the provisions of statement of financial accounting standards no. 158, employers accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans, at december 31, 2008 was $3.2 billion. although we expect to have no obligation to fund our plans in 2009, over the next several years we may make contributions to the plans that could be material. the amount of such contributions will be dependent upon a number of factors, principally the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets, changes in interest rates and the impact of possible funding relief legislation currently under consideration in the u.s. congress. changes in international conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, brazil, russia, poland and china, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. the amount of our debt obligations could adversely affect our business. our ability to refinance or repay our debt is dependent upon our ability to generate cash from operations and conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit generally. as of december 31, 2008, we had $1.6 billion of debt that had to be repaid or refinanced before 7 table of contents december 31, 2009, including $362 million of notes that matured in january 2009 and were repaid with cash on hand, and a 500 million (approximately $696 million) term loan due august 31, 2009 that we are currently negotiating to refinance. we have approximately $1.3 billion and $600 million in debt that matures in 2010 and 2011, respectively. we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness. if we use a substantial portion of our cash flow to repay indebtedness, our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the industries in which we operate may be limited. this may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt. similarly, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations to repay our debt, or are unable to refinance our debt because credit market conditions remain volatile, this may have an adverse impact on our cost of borrowing, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to u.s. and non-u.s. laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. there can be no assurance that compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future unanticipated costs. results of legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty. although we believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. risks relating to our operations material disruptions at one of our manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial results. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; labor difficulties; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; and other operational problems. any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our financial results. several of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. several of our operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as the ilim group in russia. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint 8 table of contents venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the discussion under item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 45 and 46, and underrisk factors. 6 risk factors in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations), or in the company other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation could affect our profitability. we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third-party companies that transport our goods. the market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. the industries in which we operate experience both economic cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences. fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. in addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber-based products and non-fiber substitutes. consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. competition in the united states and internationally could negatively impact our financial results. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. 6 table of contents risks relating to market and economic factors continued adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial condition and results of operation. general economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. in addition, a return to volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of our company ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, and increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. similarly, we are subject to the risk that one of the banks that has issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting the installment notes issued in connection with sales of our forestlands is downgraded below a required rating. if this were to happen, it may subject the company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or could result in an acceleration of deferred taxes if a replacement bank cannot be obtained. the impairment of financial institutions may adversely affect us. we have exposure to counterparties with which we execute transactions, including u.s. and foreign commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks, investment funds and other financial institutions, some of which may be exposed to ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks, especially in connection with recent financial market turmoil. a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a counterparty may adversely affect our access to capital, liquidity position, future business and results of operations. our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. we have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all u.s. salaried employees hired prior to july 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. we provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our u.s. salaried and certain hourly employees. our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase pension and health care costs. significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. the amount of our debt obligations could adversely affect our business. as of december 31, 2009, we had $9.0 billion of long-term debt, including notes payable and current maturities, and the amount of our debt obligations could adversely affect our business. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations to repay our debt, or are unable to refinance our debt because credit market conditions become volatile, this may have an adverse impact on our cost of borrowing, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. our pension plans are currently underfunded, and over time we will be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. the benefit liability recorded under the provisions of accounting standards codification (asc) 715, compensation retirement benefits, at december 31, 2009 was $2.8 billion. although we expect to have no obligation to fund our plans in 2010, we continually reassess the amount and timing of any discretionary contributions and could elect to make such a contribution in 2010. regardless of whether we make a discretionary contribution in 2010, over the next several years we will make contributions to the plans that are likely to be material. the amount of such contributions will depend upon 7 table of contents a number of factors, principally the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets, changes in interest rates and the impact of possible funding relief legislation currently under consideration in the u.s. congress. changes in international conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, brazil, russia, poland and china, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to u.s. and non-u.s. laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. there can be no assurance that compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. results of legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty. although we believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. risks relating to our operations material disruptions at one of our manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial results. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; labor difficulties; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; and other operational problems. 8 table of contents any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our financial results. several operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. several operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as the ilim joint venture in russia. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. for additional information with respect to our ilim joint venture, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources ilim holding s.a. shareholders agreement on page 37. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the preceding discussion and note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements inrisk factors. 8 risk factors in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations), or in the company other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation could affect our profitability. we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third-party companies that transport our goods. the market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. the industries in which we operate experience both economic cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences. fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. in addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber-based products and non-fiber substitutes. consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. competition in the united states and internationally could negatively impact our financial results. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. product or pricing strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. risks relating to market and economic factors adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial condition and results of operations. general economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. in addition, a return to volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financ ing and have an adverse effect on the 8 table of contents market price of our securities. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of our company ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, and increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. similarly, we are subject to the risk that one of the banks that has issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting the installment notes issued in connection with sales of our forestlands is downgraded below a required rating. if this were to happen, it may subject the company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or could result in an acceleration of deferred taxes if a replacement bank cannot be obtained. the impairment of financial institutions may adversely affect us. we have exposure to counterparties with which we execute transactions, including u.s. and foreign commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks, investment funds and other financial institutions, some of which may be exposed to ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks, especially in connection with recent financial market turmoil. a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a counterparty may adversely affect our access to capital, liquidity position, future business and results of operations. our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. we have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all u.s. salaried employees hired prior to july 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. we provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our u.s. salaried and certain hourly employees. our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase pension and health care costs. significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. our pension plans are currently underfunded, and over time we may be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. the benefit liability recorded under the provisions of accounting standards codification (asc) 715, compensation retirement benefits, at december 31, 2010 was $1.5 billion. the amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, principally the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. changes in international conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, brazil, russia, poland and china, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to u.s. and non-u.s. laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. there can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, boiler mact and national ambient air quality standards (naaqss), will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. results of legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. the costs and other effects of pending litigation 9 table of contents against us cannot be determined with certainty. although we believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material adverse effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. risks relating to our operations material disruptions at one of our manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial condition. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. several operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. several operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as the ilim joint venture in russia. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. for additional information with respect to our ilim joint venture, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources ilim holding s.a. shareholders agreement on page 39. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the preceding discussion and note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements inrisk factors. 8 risk factors. we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k (particularly in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations), or in the company other filings with the securities and exchange commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. risks relating to industry conditions changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation could affect our profitability. we rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third-party companies that transport our goods. the market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources. the industries in which we operate experience both economic cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences. fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. the length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. in addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber-based products and non-fiber substitutes. these consumer preferences affect the prices of our products. consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products. competition in the united states and internationally could negatively impact our financial results. we operate in a competitive environment, both in the united states and internationally, in all of our operating segments. product or pricing strategies pursued by competitors could negatively impact our financial results. risks relating to market and economic factors adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial condition and results of operations. general economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our products. in addition, a return to volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations. the level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial con - 8 table of contents dition and impair our ability to operate our business. as of december 31, 2011, international paper had approximately $9.9 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including $0 of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities and $9.5 billion of indebtedness outstanding under our floating and fixed rate notes. the level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy other obligations; our indebtedness that is subject to variable rates of interest exposes us to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and it may increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, and may make us unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. in addition, we are subject to agreements that require meeting and maintaining certain financial ratios and covenants. a significant or prolonged downturn in general business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests and could require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current business objectives. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financ ing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, including the notes. maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of our company ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. the company desire to maintain its investment grade rating may cause the company to take certain actions designed to improve its cash flow, including sale of assets, suspension or further reduction of our dividend and reductions in capital expenditures and working capital. under the terms of the agreements governing approximately $4.7 billion of our debt as of december 31, 2011, the applicable interest rate on such debt may increase upon each downgrade in our credit rating. as a result, a downgrade in our credit rating may lead to an increase in our interest expense. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency judgment, circumstances so warrant. any such downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur. downgrades in the credit ratings of banks supporting certain letters of credit will increase our cost of maintaining such indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of deferred taxes. we are subject to the risk that a bank that issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting the installment notes issued in connection with our 2006 sale of forestlands may be downgraded below a required rating. since 2006, certain banks have fallen below the required ratings threshold and were successfully replaced, or waivers were obtained regarding their replacement. as a result of the ongoing uncertainty in the banking environment, including the euro-zone sovereign debt crisis and the rating agencies reassessment of bank ratings, a number of the letter-of-credit banks currently in place are subject to an increased risk of downgrade and the number of qualified replacement banks has decreased. the downgrade of one or more of these banks may subject the company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or 9 table of contents could result in an acceleration of deferred taxes if a replacement bank cannot be obtained. see note 11 of item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for further information. our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors which could cause these costs to change. we have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all u.s. salaried employees hired prior to july 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. we provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our u.s. salaried and certain hourly employees. our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also increase pension and health care costs. significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. our pension plans are currently underfunded, and over time we may be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. we record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. the benefit liability recorded under the provisions of accounting standards codification (asc) 715, compensation retirement benefits, at december 31, 2011 was $2.4 billion. the amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, principally the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates. changes in international conditions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the united states in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. specifically, brazil, russia, poland, china, and india where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, fluctua- tions in the value of local currency versus the u.s. dollar, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including governmental subsidies, tax benefits and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over international paper, may also adversely impact our operating results and business prospects in these countries. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law and other laws related to operations in foreign jurisdictions. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations. risks relating to legal proceedings and compliance costs expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements could impact our business and results of operations. our operations are subject to u.s. and non-u.s. laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety. we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations. there can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, boiler mact and national ambient air quality standards (naaqss), will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. we could also incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations. the amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of hazardous substances. 10 table of contents results of legal proceedings could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. the costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty. although we believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected. risks relating to our operations material disruptions at one of our manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. we operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. a material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial condition. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply; terrorism or threats of terrorism; domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world; unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; labor difficulties; and other operational problems. any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned expenditures. if one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results. we are subject to cyber-security risks related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive company, customer, employee and vendor information as well as breaches in the technology that manages operations and other business processes. international paper business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating and independent third party verification, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to cyber attacks. network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation including, but not limited to interruption to systems availability, denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with international paper. access to internal applications required to plan our operations, source materials, manufacture and ship finished goods and account for orders could be denied or misused. theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, could stem from such incidents. any of these operational disruptions and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, business delays, negative publicity and could have a material effect on our business. several operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit. several operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as the ilim joint venture in russia. in joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. in general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. in joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our 11 table of contents relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. in addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. for additional information with respect to our ilim joint venture, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation liquidity and capital resources ilim holding s.a. shareholder agreement on page 44. we may not achieve the expected benefits from our recent acquisition of temple-inland or from other strategic acquisitions and divestitures. on february 13, 2012, we completed our acquisition of temple-inland in a transaction valued at approximately $4.5 billion. as a condition to allowing the transaction to proceed, the antitrust division of the u.s. department of justice entered into an agreement with the company that requires us to divest three containerboard mills, with approximately 970,000 tons of aggregate containerboard capacity, within four months of closing (with the possibility of two 30-day extensions). the success of the temple-inland acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to divest these mills successfully and to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating temple-inland with our existing businesses. the integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming, and we may not accomplish the integration of temple-inland smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. potential integration risks include, among other things, our ability to successfully implement our business plan for the combined business, retain key customers, suppliers and employees, and retain and obtain required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits. in addition, temple-inland obligations and liabilities, some of which may not have not been disclosed to us or may not be reflected or reserved for in temple-inland financial statements, may be greater than we have anticipated, and we do not have the benefit of any indemnification in the merger agreement with respect to obligations or liabilities of temple-inland, whether known or unknown. potential liabilities of temple-inland include, but are not limited to: pending and potential civil proceedings and criminal investigations related to an august 2011 upset condition in an evaporator at temple-inland bogalusa, louisiana paper mill that caused the biochemical oxygen demand (bod) limits for permitted discharge from the wastewater treatment pond into the pearl river to be exceeded, resulting in a fish kill; and a pending lawsuit filed by the liquidating trustee for guaranty bank, a former subsidiary of temple-inland financial services business that was spun off by temple-inland in 2007, asserting various claims relating to the failure of guaranty bank and its parent guaranty financial group. more broadly, our strategy for long-term growth, productivity and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to make prudent strategic acquisitions and divestitures and to realize the benefits we expect from them, and are subject to the risk that we may not achieve the expected benefits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the preceding discussion and note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in