quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt, (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our canadian operations and (iii) equity price risk associated with our convertible debt. 39 table of contents interest rate risk . as of december 31, 2012 , we had an aggregate of $ 1,637 of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of $ 1,184 of borrowings under the abl facility and $ 453 of borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization facility. the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt on december 31, 2012 were (i) 2.3 percent for the abl facility and (ii) 0.9 percent for the accounts receivable securitization facility. as of december 31, 2012 , based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $ 12 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility may fluctuate significantly. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2012 , we had an aggregate of $ 5.7 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates, including our subordinated convertible debentures. a one percentage point decrease in market interest rates as of december 31, 2012 would increase the fair value of our fixed rate indebtedness by approximately six percent. for additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see notes 11 (see fair value of financial instruments ) and 12 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2012 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would cause our annual after-tax earnings to change by approximately $10. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. equity price risk . in connection with the november 2009 4 percent convertible notes offering, holdings entered into convertible note hedge transactions with option counterparties. the convertible note hedge transactions cost $26, and decreased additional paid-in capital by $17, net of taxes, in our accompanying consolidated statements of stockholders' equity (deficit). the convertible note hedge transactions cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, 15.1 million shares of our common stock. the convertible note hedge transactions are intended to reduce, subject to a limit, the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the 4 percent convertible notes. the effect of the convertible note hedge transactions is to increase the effective conversion price to $15.56 per share, equal to an approximately 75 percent premium over the $8.89 closing price of our common stock at issuance. the effective conversion price is subject to change in certain circumstances, such as if the 4 percent convertible notes are converted prior to may 15, 2015. in the event the market value of our common stock exceeds the effective conversion price per share, the settlement amount received from such transactions will only partially offs et the potential dilution. for example, if, at the time of exercise of the conversion right, the price of our common stock was $ 40.00 or $ 45.00 per share, assuming an effective conversion price of $15.56 per share, on a net basis, we would issue 9.2 million or 9.9 million shares, respectively. based on the price of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2012 , holders of the 4 percent convertible notes have the right to redeem the notes during the first quarter of 2013 at a conversion price of $11.11 per share of common stock. between january 1, 2013 (the beginning of the first quarter) and january 21, 2013 , none of the 4 percent convertible senior notes were redeemed. if the total $168 outstanding principal amount of the 4 percent convertible notes was converted, the total cost to settle the notes would be $ 687 , assuming a conversion price of $45.52 (the closing price of our common stock on december 31, 2012 ) per share of common stock. the $168 principal amount would be settled in cash, and the remaining $ 519 could be settled in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof, at our discretion. based on the december 31, 2012 closing stock price, approximately 11 million shares of stock, excluding any stock we would receive from the option counterparties as discussed below, would be issued if we settled the entire $ 519 of conversion value in excess of the principal amount in stock. the total cost to settle would change approximately $ 15 for each $ 1 (actual dollars) change in our stock price. if the full principal amount was converted at our december 31, 2012 closing stock price, we estimate that we would receive approximately $ 51 in either cash or stock from the option counterparties, after which the effective conversion price would be approximately $14.52 . 40 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt, (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our canadian operations and (iii) equity price risk associated with our convertible debt. interest rate risk . as of december 31, 2013 , we had an aggregate of $ 1,536 of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of $ 1,106 of borrowings under the abl facility and $ 430 of borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization facility. the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt on december 31, 2013 were (i) 2.5 percent for the abl facility and (ii) 0.8 percent for the accounts receivable securitization facility. as of december 31, 2013 , 40 table of contents based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $ 9 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility may fluctuate significantly. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2013 , we had an aggregate of $ 5.6 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates. a one percentage point decrease in market interest rates as of december 31, 2013 would increase the fair value of our fixed rate indebtedness by approximately six percent. for additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see notes 11 (see fair value of financial instruments ) and 12 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2013 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would cause our annual after-tax earnings to change by approximately $11. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. equity price risk . in connection with the november 2009 4 percent convertible notes offering, holdings entered into convertible note hedge transactions with option counterparties. the convertible note hedge transactions cost $26, and decreased additional paid-in capital by $17, net of taxes, in our accompanying consolidated statements of stockholders' equity (deficit). the convertible note hedge transactions cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, 10.3 million shares of our common stock. the convertible note hedge transactions are intended to reduce, subject to a limit, the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the 4 percent convertible notes. the effect of the convertible note hedge transactions is to increase the effective conversion price to $15.56 per share, equal to an approximately 75 percent premium over the $8.89 closing price of our common stock at issuance. the effective conversion price is subject to change in certain circumstances, such as if the 4 percent convertible notes are converted prior to may 15, 2015. in the event the market value of our common stock exceeds the effective conversion price per share, the settlement amount received from such transactions will only partially offset the potential dilution. for example, if, at the time of exercise of the conversion right, the price of our common stock was $ 75.00 or $ 80.00 per share, assuming an effective conversion price of $15.56 per share, on a net basis, we would issue 11.3 million or 11.5 million shares, respectively. based on the price of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2013 , holders of the 4 percent convertible notes have the right to redeem the notes during the first quarter of 2014 at a conversion price of $11.11 per share of common stock. since january 1, 2014 (the beginning of the first quarter), none of the 4 percent convertible senior notes were redeemed, however we have received redemption not ices for $ 56 of the 4 percent convertible senior notes which we expect to be redeemed in the first quarter of 2014. if the total $156 outstanding principal amount of the 4 percent convertible notes was converted, the total cost to settle the notes would be $ 1,094 , assuming a conversion price of $77.95 (the closing price of our common stock on december 31, 2013 ) per share of common stock. the $156 principal amount would be settled in cash, and the remaining $ 938 could be settled in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof, at our discretion. based on the december 31, 2013 closing stock price, approximately 12 million shares of stock, excluding any stock we would receive from the option counterparties as discussed below, would be issued if we settled the entire $ 938 of conversion value in excess of the principal amount in stock. the total cost to settle would change approximately $14 for each $ 1 (actual dollars) change in our stock price. if the full principal amount was converted at our december 31, 2013 closing stock price, we estimate that we would receive approximately $ 43 in either cash or stock from the option counterparties, after which the effective conversion price would be approximately $14.17 . 41 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt, (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our canadian operations and (iii) equity price risk associated with our convertible debt. interest rate risk . as of december 31, 2014 , we had an aggregate of $ 1.9 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of $ 1.3 billion of borrowings under the abl facility and $ 548 of borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization facility. the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt on december 31, 2014 were (i) 2.2 percent for the abl facility and (ii) 0.8 percent for the accounts receivable securitization facility. as of december 31, 2014 , based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $ 11 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility may fluctuate significantly. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2014 , we had an aggregate of $ 6.2 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates. a one percentage point decrease in market interest rates as of december 31, 2014 would increase the fair value of our fixed rate 31 table of contents indebtedness by approximately six percent. for additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see note 11 (see fair value of financial instruments ) and note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2014 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would cause our annual after-tax earnings to change by approximately $12. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. equity price risk . in connection with the november 2009 4 percent convertible notes offering, holdings entered into convertible note hedge transactions with option counterparties. the convertible note hedge transactions cost $26, and decreased additional paid-in capital by $17, net of taxes, in our accompanying consolidated statements of stockholders' equity (deficit). the convertible note hedge transactions cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, 0.7 million shares of our common stock. the convertible note hedge transactions are intended to reduce, subject to a limit, the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the 4 percent convertible notes. the effect of the convertible note hedge transactions is to increase the effective conversion price to $15.56 per share, equal to an approximately 75 percent premium over the $8.89 closing price of our common stock at issuance. the effective conversion price is subject to change in certain circumstances, such as if the 4 percent convertible notes are converted prior to may 15, 2015. in the event the market value of our common stock exceeds the effective conversion price per share, the settlement amount received from such transactions will only partially offset the potential dilution. for example, if, at the time of exercise of the conversion right, the price of our common stock was $ 80.00 or $ 100.00 per share, assuming an effective conversion price of $15.56 per share, on a net basis, we would issue 2.6 million or 2.7 million shares, respectively. based on the price of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2014 , holders of the 4 percent convertible notes have the right to redeem the notes during the first quarter of 2015 at a conversion price of $11.11 per share of common stock. since january 1, 2015 (the beginning of the first quarter), none of the 4 percent convertible senior notes were redeemed, however we have received redemption notices for $ 26 of the 4 percent convertible senior notes which we expect to be redeemed in the first quarter of 2015. if the total $34 outstanding principal amount of the 4 percent convertible notes was converted, the total cost to settle the notes would be $ 310 , assuming a conversion price of $102.01 (the closing price of our common stock on december 31, 2014 ) per share of common stock. the $34 principal amount would be settled in cash, and the remaining $ 276 could be settled in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof, at our discretion. based on the december 31, 2014 closing stock price, approximately 3 million shares of stock, excluding any stock we would receive from the option counterparties as discussed below, would be issued if we settled the entire $ 276 of conversion value in excess of the principal amount in stock. the total cost to settle would change approximately $3 for each $ 1 (actual dollars) change in our stock price. if the full principal amount was converted at our december 31, 2014 closing stock price, we estimate that we would receive approximately $ 3 in either cash or stock from the option counterparties, after which the effective conversion price would be approximately $12.10 . 32 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt and (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our canadian operations. interest rate risk . as of december 31, 2015 , we had an aggregate of $ 2.2 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of borrowings under the abl facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility. see "liquidity and capital resources" above for the amounts outstanding, and the interest rates thereon, as of december 31, 2015 under the abl facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility. as of december 31, 2015 , based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $ 13 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility may fluctuate significantly. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. 39 table of contents at december 31, 2015 , we had an aggregate of $ 6.0 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates. a one percentage point decrease in market interest rates as of december 31, 2015 would increase the fair value of our fixed rate indebtedness by approximately five percent. for additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see note 11 (see fair value of financial instruments ) and note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2015 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would cause our annual after-tax earnings to change by approximately $8. during the year ended december 31, 2015 , the average canadian exchange rate deteriorated by approximately 14 percent. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. 40 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt and (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our canadian operations. interest rate risk . as of december 31, 2016 , we had an aggregate of $ 2.2 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of borrowings under the abl facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility. see "liquidity and capital resources" above for the amounts outstanding, and the interest rates thereon, as of december 31, 2016 under the abl facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility. as of december 31, 2016 , based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $ 14 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility may fluctuate significantly. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. 39 table of contents at december 31, 2016 , we had an aggregate of $ 5.6 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates. a one percentage point decrease in market interest rates as of december 31, 2016 would increase the fair value of our fixed rate indebtedness by approximately six percent. for additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see note 10 (see fair value of financial instruments ) and note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2016 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would cause our annual after-tax earnings to change by approximately $5. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. 40 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt and (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our canadian operations. interest rate risk . as of december 31, 2017 , we had an aggregate of $ 2.4 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of borrowings under the abl facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility. see "liquidity and capital resources" above for the amounts outstanding, and the interest rates thereon, as of december 31, 2017 under the abl facility and the accounts receivable securitization facility. as of december 31, 2017 , based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $ 14 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility may fluctuate significantly. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2017 , we had an aggregate of $ 7.1 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates. a one percentage point decrease in market interest rates as of december 31, 2017 would increase the fair value of our fixed rate indebtedness by approximately seven percent. for additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see note 11 (see fair value of financial instruments ) and note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2017 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would cause our annual after-tax earnings to change by approximately $6. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. 39 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt and (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our foreign operations. interest rate risk . as of december 31, 2018 , we had an aggregate of $ 3.5 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of borrowings under the abl, accounts receivable securitization and term loan facilities. see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for the amounts outstanding, and the interest rates thereon, as of december 31, 2018 under these facilities. as of december 31, 2018 , based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $ 26 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding may fluctuate significantly. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2018 , we had an aggregate of $ 8.2 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates. a one percentage point decrease in market interest rates as of december 31, 2018 would increase the fair value of our fixed rate indebtedness by approximately six percent. for additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see note 11 (see fair value of financial instruments ) and note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . we operate in the u.s., canada and europe. as discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in july 2018, we completed the acquisition of bakercorp, which allowed for our entry into select european markets. during the year ended december 31, 2018 , our foreign subsidiaries accounted for $ 660 , or 8 percent, of our total revenue of $ 8.047 billion , and $ 71 , or 5 percent, of our total pretax income of $ 1.476 billion . based on the size of our foreign operations relative to the company as a whole, we do not believe that a 10 percent change in exchange rates would have a material impact on our earnings. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. 40 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt and (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our foreign operations. interest rate risk . as of december 31, 2019 , we had an aggregate of $ 3.5 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of borrowings under the abl, accounts receivable securitization and term loan facilities. see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for the amounts outstanding, and the interest rates thereon, as of december 31, 2019 under these facilities. as of december 31, 2019 , based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $ 27 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding may fluctuate significantly. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2019 , we had an aggregate of $ 7.9 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates. a one percentage point decrease in market interest rates as of december 31, 2019 would increase the fair value of our fixed rate indebtedness by approximately six percent. for additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see note 11 (see fair value of financial instruments ) and note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . we operate in the u.s., canada and europe. as discussed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, in july 2018, we completed the acquisition of bakercorp, which allowed for our entry into select european markets. our presence in europe is limited, and most of our foreign revenue and income is from canada. during the year ended december 31, 2019 , our foreign subsidiaries accounted for $ 817 , or 9 percent, of our total revenue of $ 9.351 billion , and $ 62 , or 4 percent, of our total pretax income of $ 1.514 billion . based on the size of our foreign operations relative to the company as a whole, we do not believe that a 10 percent change in exchange rates would have a material impact on our earnings. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. 39 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (1) interest rate risk associated with our variable rate debt and (2) foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily associated with our canadian operations. interest rate risk. we periodically utilize interest rate swap agreements and interest rate cap agreements to manage our interest costs and exposure to changes in interest rates. as of december 31, 2004, we had swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $1.2 billion and cap agreements with an agreement notional 47 table of contents amount of $725. the effect of the swap agreement was to convert $1.2 billion of our fixed rate notes to floating rate instruments. the fixed rate notes being converted consisted of (i) $445 of our 6 1 / 2 percent notes through 2012, (ii) $375 of our 7 percent notes, and (iii) $375 of our 7 3 / 4 percent senior subordinated notes through 2013. as of december 31, 2004, after giving effect to our interest rate swap and cap agreements, we had an aggregate of approximately $1.3 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. for this purpose, the portion of the term loan subject to the cap is considered fixed. the debt that is subject to fluctuations in interest rates includes $133 of borrowings under our revolver canadian facility, $1.2 billion in swaps, and $19 of term loans not subject to an interest rate cap. the weighted-average interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt on december 31, 2004 were (i) 4.8 percent for the revolving credit facility (represents the canadian rate since the amount outstanding was canadian borrowings), (ii) 4.7 percent for the term loan and (iii) 4.7 percent for the debt subject to our swap agreements. as of december 31, 2004, based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, after giving effect to our interest rate swap agreements, our annual earnings would decrease by approximately $13 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of our variable rate indebtedness may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the amount of indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility and receivables securitization facility from time to time. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2004 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would not have a material impact on our earnings. in addition, we periodically enter into foreign exchange contracts to hedge our transaction exposures. we had no outstanding foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2004 and 2003. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. 48 table of contentsrisk factors our results of operations and financial condition are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the following risk factors in conjunction with the other information contained in this report. should any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted. decreases in north american construction and industrial activities could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing the demand for our equipment or the prices that we can charge. our general rental and trench safety, pump and power equipment is principally used in connection with construction and industrial activities and our traffic control equipment is principally used in connection with the construction or repair of roads and bridges and similar infrastructure projects. weakness in our end markets, such as a decline in construction or industrial activity or a reduction in infrastructure projects, may lead to a decrease in the demand for our equipment or the prices that we can charge. any such decrease could adversely affect our operating results by causing our revenues and gross profit margins to be reduced. we have identified below certain factors that may cause weakness in our end markets, either temporarily or long-term: weakness in the economy or the onset of a recession; an increase in the cost of construction materials; sluggishness in government spending for roads, bridges and other infrastructure projects; an increase in interest rates; adverse weather conditions which may temporarily affect a particular region; or terrorism or hostilities involving the united states or canada. our operating results may fluctuate, which could affect the trading value of our securities. we expect that our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter or over the longer term, due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading value of our securities. these factors include: seasonal rental patterns of our customers, with rental activity tending to be lower in the winter; 9 table of contents completion of acquisitions; changes in the amount of revenue relating to renting traffic control equipment, since revenues from this equipment category tend to be more seasonal than the rest of our business; changes in the size of our rental fleet and/or in the rate at which we sell our used equipment; changes in government spending for infrastructure projects and other non-residential construction such as hospitals and schools; changes in demand for our equipment or the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; changes in the interest rates applicable to our floating rate debt; cost fluctuations, such as the recent increases in the cost of oil, steel and employee-related compensation and healthcare benefits; if we determine that a potential acquisition will not be consummated, the need to charge against earnings any expenditures relating to such transaction (such as financing commitment fees, merger and acquisition advisory fees and professional fees) previously capitalized; or the possible need, from time to time, to record goodwill impairment charges as described below or other write-offs or charges due to a variety of occurrences, such as the adoption of new accounting standards, store divestitures, consolidations or closings, the refinancing of existing indebtedness, the impairment of assets or the buy-out of equipment leases. we are highly leveraged, which subjects us to various risks. at both december 31, 2005 and 2004, our total indebtedness was approximately $3.2 billion, including approximately $222 million of subordinated convertible debentures (also referred to as quips securities). our substantial indebtedness has the potential to affect us adversely in a number of ways. for example, it will or could: require us to devote a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, reducing the funds available for other purposes; constrain our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly since substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests relating to existing indebtedness; or make it difficult for us to cope with a downturn in our business or a decrease in our cash flow. further, if we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include: reducing or delaying capital expenditures; seeking additional capital; selling assets; or restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness. even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may continue to be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates that are linked to changing market interest rates. as a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase our interest expense and our debt service obligations. at december 31, 2005, including the effect of our interest rate swap and cap agreements, we had 10 table of contents approximately $1.3 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. this $1.3 billion represents approximately 45 percent of our total indebtedness, excluding our quips securities. see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. we will be unable to file our delinquent quarterly reports on form 10-q by the end of the extension period granted by holders of our bonds, which will give our bondholders the right to declare an event of default. we are party to various indentures under which an aggregate of approximately $2.3 billion of securities (the notes ) were outstanding at december 31, 2005. these instruments require us to timely file required annual and other periodic reports. holders of the requisite majorities of our notes previously agreed to amendments to allow us until march 31, 2006 to file our annual report on form 10-k for 2004 and our quarterly reports on form 10-q for 2005 interim periods. we are currently preparing our reports on form 10-q for 2005 interim periods. although we will not be in a position to file these reports by march 31, 2006, we expect to file these reports within the next 30 days. the failure to file these reports will not automatically result in an event of default under our note indentures. however, either the trustee or the holders of not less than 25 percent of the principal amount of the notes issued under each indenture will have the right to notify the company of its nonperformance and declare an event of default. if a notice of default satisfying the requirements of the applicable indenture were to be duly delivered, the company would have no less than 30 days to cure the default. if the company does not cure the default within the applicable period, then either the trustee or the holders of not less than 25 percent of the principal amount of the notes issued under such indenture would have the right to declare the principal amount and all accrued interest under such securities due and payable, unless a waiver is obtained from holders of at least a majority of the principal amount of such securities. we have obtained an amendment to our senior secured credit facility, which, among other things, waives any default from the delay in filing certain sec reports and allows us until april 28, 2006 to file our annual report on form 10-k for 2004 and our quarterly reports on form 10-q for 2005 interim periods. if the company were not to file such reports by april 28, 2006, the company would be required to obtain an additional extension or be in immediate default under the senior secured credit facility. if our bondholders (from whom we have not sought any waiver or amendment) declare an event of default, the waiver will nevertheless continue until april 28, 2006. in addition, the amendment to our senior credit facility limits our ability to make borrowings under the facility to amounts necessary to fund obligations to be paid in the ordinary course during the one-week period following the applicable borrowing. if the events described above were to occur, we might be unable to refinance our debt, whether through the capital markets or otherwise, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. if we could not refinance our debt, we may be unable to meet our payment obligations unless we engage in an extraordinary transaction, including an asset sale, and any such transaction might have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. further, if we are unable to repay or refinance our debt, as it becomes due, we could be forced to restructure our obligations or seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws, or an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding may be brought against us. if we are unable to satisfy the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, our lenders could elect to terminate the agreements and require us to repay the outstanding borrowings. under the agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, we are required to, among other things, satisfy certain financial tests relating to: (a) the interest coverage ratio, (b) the ratio of funded debt to cash flow, (c) the ratio of senior secured debt to tangible assets and (d) the ratio of senior secured debt to cash flow. if we are unable to satisfy any of these covenants, the lenders could elect to terminate our senior secured credit facility and/or other agreements governing our debt and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. in such event, unless we were able to refinance the indebtedness coming due and replace our senior secured credit facility and/or the other agreements governing our debt, we would likely not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs and we 11 table of contents would be forced to adopt an alternative strategy as described above. even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may not have sufficient liquidity for our operations. in addition to financial covenants, we are subject to various other covenants in our senior secured credit facility as well as in the other agreements governing our debt, such as a requirement to file our periodic reports with the sec in a timely manner. in september 2005, we completed a consent solicitation of our outstanding notes and convertible securities in which we amended the indentures governing these securities to waive any defaults related to the delay in filing our annual and quarterly reports for periods ended after september 30, 2004 with the sec and allow the company until march 31, 2006 to file the late sec filings. in addition, in 2005 we amended our senior secured credit facility to waive any defaults related to the delay in making certain sec filings and allow the company until march 31, 2006 to file the late sec filings, and in march 2006 we amended our senior secured credit facility again to waive any defaults related to the delay in making those sec filings and allow the company until april 28, 2006 to file the late sec filings. as described above, we have not filed our quarterly reports on form 10-q for quarters ending in 2005 with the sec. our inability to comply with any covenants could require us to solicit consents to another amendment to the indentures governing our outstanding notes and convertible securities and/or amend our senior secured credit facility again. otherwise, as described above, our bondholders could declare an event of default, and following the expiration of any grace or cure period for such event of default, the waiver under our senior secured credit facility would terminate and our senior lenders could declare an event of default. in addition to the risks described above with respect to non-compliance with covenants in agreements governing our debt, compliance with covenants may restrict our ability to conduct our operations. for instance, these covenants limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur indebtedness, make prepayments of certain indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, create liens, make acquisitions, sell assets and engage in mergers and acquisitions. these covenants could adversely affect our operating results by significantly limiting our operating and financial flexibility. if we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business. if the cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under our credit facility, is not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. however, we may not succeed in obtaining the requisite additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. if we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment, making acquisitions, opening new rental locations and refinancing existing indebtedness. we may not have successfully remediated previously identified material weaknesses in our internal controls and we may identify additional material weaknesses in the future. as described below under item 9a, we have in the past had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and as of december 31, 2005 have a material weakness in our financial close process. we have taken actions to remediate all material weaknesses that we previously identified and we believe that we have successfully remediated all material weaknesses other than the weakness in our financial close process. however, there can be no assurance that the measures we have taken and will take to remediate previously identified weaknesses will be sufficient or that we will not identify additional weaknesses in the future. additionally, even if we believe we have effective control over financial reporting, the process for assessing the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting requires subjective judgments and the application of standards that are relatively new and subject to questions of interpretation. accordingly, we cannot be certain that our auditors will agree with our assessment. if either we or our auditors ultimately conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the perception of our company may be adversely affected, which could in turn adversely affect the price of our securities, our access to the capital markets and/or our borrowing costs. 12 table of contents we are subject to an ongoing inquiry by the sec. as previously reported, the company is the subject of a non-public, fact-finding inquiry by the sec that appears to relate to a broad range of the company accounting practices and does not seem to be confined to a specific time period. in august 2004, we issued a press release and filed a form 8-k disclosing the existence of the sec inquiry. in march 2005, our board of directors formed the special committee of independent directors to review matters related to the sec inquiry. our board of directors received and acted upon findings of the special committee in january 2006. we are cooperating with the sec in its ongoing inquiry. however, we cannot predict the outcome of the sec inquiry, whether the sec will bring any proceeding relating to the company or when this matter might be resolved. this matter has the potential to adversely affect us in a number of ways, including the following: we are likely to continue to incur significant expenses in connection with responding to the inquiry, regardless of its outcome; responding to the inquiry has in the past diverted and is likely to continue to divert the time and attention of our management from normal business operations; and if the sec does determine to bring a proceeding involving us, depending on its outcome, we may be required to pay fines and/or take corrective actions that would increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our operations. if we are ultimately required to pay significant amounts and/or take significant corrective actions, our results and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. in addition, regardless of the outcome, the publicity surrounding the inquiry and the potential risks associated with the inquiry could negatively impact the perception of our company by investors and others, which could adversely affect the price of our securities, our access to the capital markets and/or our borrowing costs. our senior management is required to devote significant time and attention to matters arising from the sec inquiry. our senior management has devoted a significant amount of time to restating our financial statements, reviewing and improving our internal controls and procedures and responding to the sec inquiry and review by the special committee of our board of directors discussed above and elsewhere in this report. if our senior management is unable to devote sufficient time in the future toward managing our existing business operations and developing and executing our growth strategy, we may not be able to remain competitive and our revenues and gross margins may decline. we are subject to certain ongoing class action lawsuits. three class action lawsuits have been filed against the company, as described in greater detail under item 3 legal proceedings. all three of the complaints allege, among other things, that (i) certain of the company sec filings and other public statements contained false and misleading statements which resulted in damages to the plaintiffs and the members of the purported class when they purchased the company securities and (ii) the conduct in connection therewith violated section 10(b) of the exchange act, sec rule 10b-5 and, in the case of the individual defendants, section 20(a) of the exchange act. the complaints seek unspecified compensatory damages, costs and expenses. we intend to defend against these actions vigorously. however, we do not know what the outcome of these proceedings will be and, if we do not prevail, we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts. further, regardless of the outcome, we may incur significant defense costs, and the time and attention of our management may be diverted from normal business operations. if we are ultimately required to pay 13 table of contents significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. we have received a comment letter from the sec that contains comments that are unresolved. as described below in item 1b, unresolved staff comments, we received comments from the sec to our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2003 and our quarterly reports on form 10-q for the quarterly periods in 2004. these comments are unresolved because we have been focused on (1) cooperating with the ongoing sec inquiry and review of the special committee, (2) reviewing and restating our financial statements and (3) preparing our annual report for 2004, our quarterly reports for 2005 and this annual report. however, our restatements for customer relationships and equipment revenue recognition as well as the reclassification of the buy-out of an operating lease reflected in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report reflect these comments. we will continue to work with the sec to resolve these comments and, while we do not currently anticipate any additional restatements will result from the resolution of these comments, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. we have made numerous acquisitions, which entail certain risks. we have grown in part through acquisitions and may continue to do so. we will consider potential acquisitions of varying sizes and may, on a selective basis, pursue acquisitions or consolidation opportunities involving other public companies or large privately-held companies. it is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. the making of acquisitions entails certain risks, including: unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations; difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company with our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; and loss of key employees of the acquired company. we expect to pay for future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. to the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient to fund future acquisitions, we will require additional debt or equity financing and, consequently, our indebtedness may increase as we implement our growth strategy. goodwill related to acquisitions represents a substantial portion of our total assets. if the fair value of the goodwill should drop below the recorded value, we would be required to write-off the excess goodwill. on december 31, 2005 and 2004, we had on our balance sheet goodwill of $1.3 billion, which represented approximately 25 percent and 26 percent, respectively, of our total assets at each such date. this goodwill is an intangible asset and represents the excess of the purchase price that we paid for acquired businesses over the estimated fair value of the net assets of those businesses. of the goodwill recorded on our balance sheet at december 31, 2005, 93 percent is associated with our general rentals segment and 7 percent is associated with our trench safety, pump and power segment. we are required to test our goodwill for impairment at least annually. in general, this means that we must determine whether the fair value of the goodwill, calculated in accordance with applicable accounting standards, is at least equal to the recorded value shown on our balance sheet. if the fair value of the goodwill is less than the recorded value, we are required to write-off the excess goodwill as an operating expense. our results in 2004 were adversely affected by the write-off of approximately $139 million of goodwill related to our traffic control segment as described below in this report, and our results in the preceding two years 14 table of contents were also adversely affected by significant goodwill write-offs. based on the current performance of our general rentals and trench safety, pump and power segments, as well as current market conditions, we do not currently foresee any additional goodwill write-offs; however, we cannot be certain that a future downturn in the business or changes in market conditions will not necessitate additional write-offs in future periods. our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could lead to a decrease in our market share or in the prices that we can charge. the equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. our competitors primarily include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations, regional competitors which operate in one or more states, public companies or divisions of public companies, and equipment vendors and dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. we may in the future encounter increased competition from our existing competitors or from new companies. competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing our rental volumes or depressing the prices that we can charge. disruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations. our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. any disruptions in these systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. we are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business and our insurance may not fully protect us. we are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business. these possible claims include those relating to (1) personal injury or death caused by equipment rented or sold by us, (2) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees and (3) employment related claims. further, as described elsewhere in this report, a small number of shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits have been filed against us. currently, we carry a broad range of insurance for the protection of our assets and operations. however, such insurance may not fully protect us for a number of reasons, including: the insurance policies relating to our operations are subject to deductibles or self insured retentions of $2 million for general liability and automobile liability, on a per occurrence basis and $1 million per occurrence for workers compensation claims; our director &amp; officer liability insurance policy has no deductible for individual non-indemnifiable loss coverage, but is subject to a $3 million deductible for company reimbursement coverage and all director and officer coverage is subject to certain exclusions; we do not maintain coverage for environmental liability (other than legally required underground storage tank coverage), since we believe the cost for such coverage is high relative to the benefit that it provides; and certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits, might not be covered by our insurance. if we are found liable for any significant claims that are not covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. it is possible that our insurance carrier may disclaim coverage for the class action and derivative lawsuits against us. it is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms, or not available at all. 15 table of contents we are subject to numerous environmental and safety regulations. if we are required to incur compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our operating results could be adversely affected. our operations are subject to numerous laws governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. these laws regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and materials, and air quality. under these laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (1) the costs of investigating and remediating and contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment regardless of fault and (2) fines and penalties for non-compliance. our operations generally do not raise significant environmental risks, but we use hazardous materials to clean and maintain equipment, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from underground and above-ground storage tanks located at certain of our locations. based on conditions currently known to us, we do not believe that any pending or likely remediation and compliance effort will have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot be certain, however, as to the potential financial impact on our business if new adverse environmental conditions are discovered or environmental and safety requirements become more stringent. if we are required to incur environmental compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be adversely affected depending on the magnitude of the cost. labor disputes could disrupt our ability to serve our customers and/or lead to higher labor costs. we currently have approximately 1,000 employees that are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 12,400 employees that are not represented by unions; however, various unions periodically seek to organize certain of our nonunion employees. union organizing efforts or collective bargaining negotiations could potentially lead to work stoppages and/or slowdowns or strikes by certain of our employees, which could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. in addition, these efforts could negatively affect our relationship with certain customers. further, our labor costs could increase as a result of the settlement of actual or threatened labor disputes or an increase in the number of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. we have operations outside the united states. as a result, we may incur losses from currency conversions and have higher costs than we otherwise would have due to the need to comply with foreign laws. our operations in canada and mexico are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. these include (1) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates, (2) the need to comply with foreign laws and (3) the possibility of political or economic instability in foreign countries. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (1) interest rate risk associated with our variable rate debt and (2) foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily associated with our canadian operations. interest rate risk. we periodically utilize interest rate swap agreements and interest rate cap agreements to manage our interest costs and exposure to changes in interest rates. as of december 31, 2005 and december 31, 2004, we had swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $1.2 billion and cap agreements with an agreement notional amount of $725. the effect of the swap agreement was, at december 31, 2005 and december 31, 2004, to convert $1.2 billion of our fixed rate notes to floating rate instruments. the fixed rate notes being converted consisted of (i) $445 of our 6 1 / 2 percent notes through 2012, (ii) $375 of our 7 percent notes, and (iii) $375 of our 7 3 / 4 percent senior subordinated notes through 2013. as of december 31, 2005, after giving effect to our interest rate swap and cap agreements, we had an aggregate of $1.3 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. for this purpose, the portion of the term loan subject to the cap is considered fixed. the debt that is subject to fluctuations in interest rates includes $136 of borrowings under our revolver canadian facility, $1.2 billion in swaps, and $11 of term loans not subject to an interest rate cap. the weighted-average interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt on december 31, 2005 were (i) 5.3 percent for the revolving credit facility (represents the canadian rate since the amount outstanding was canadian borrowings), (ii) 6.6 percent for the term loan and (iii) 6.7 percent for the debt subject to our swap agreements. as of december 31, 2005, based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, after giving effect to our interest rate swap agreements, our annual earnings would decrease by approximately $13.4 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2004, after giving effect to our interest rate swap and cap agreements, we had an aggregate of approximately $1.3 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. for this purpose, the portion of the term loan subject to the cap is considered fixed. the debt that is subject to fluctuations in interest rates includes $133 of borrowings under our revolver canadian facility, $1.2 billion in swaps, and $19 of term loans not subject to an interest rate cap. the weighted-average interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt on december 31, 2004 were (i) 4.8 percent for the revolving credit facility (represents the canadian rate since the amount outstanding was canadian borrowings), (ii) 4.7 percent for the term loan and (iii) 4.7 percent for the debt subject to our swap agreements. as of december 31, 2004, based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, after giving effect to our interest rate swap agreements, our annual earnings would decrease by approximately $13 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. 50 table of contents the amount of our variable rate indebtedness may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the amount of indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility and receivables securitization facility from time to time. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2004 and 2005 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would not have a material impact on our earnings. in addition, we periodically enter into foreign exchange contracts to hedge our transaction exposures. we had no outstanding foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. 51 table of contentsrisk factors our results of operations and financial condition are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. in connection with any investment decision with respect to our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the sec. should any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted. decreases in north american construction and industrial activities could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing the demand for our equipment or the prices that we can charge. our general rental and trench safety, pump and power equipment is principally used in connection with construction and industrial activities. weakness in our end markets, such as a decline in construction or industrial activity, may lead to a decrease in the demand for our equipment or the prices that we can charge. any such decrease could adversely affect our operating results by causing our revenues and gross profit margins to be reduced. the following factors, among others, may cause weakness in our end markets, either temporarily or long-term: weakness in the economy or the onset of a recession; an increase in the cost of construction materials; an increase in interest rates; adverse weather conditions which may temporarily affect a particular region; or terrorism or hostilities involving the united states or canada. our operating results may fluctuate, which could affect the trading value of our securities. we expect that our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter or over the longer term due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading value of our securities. these factors, in addition to general economic conditions, include: seasonal rental patterns of our customers, with rental activity tending to be lower in the winter; 8 table of contents completion of acquisitions; changes in the size of our rental fleet and/or in the rate at which we sell our used equipment; changes in government spending for infrastructure projects and other non-residential construction such as hospitals and schools; changes in demand for our equipment or the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; changes in the interest rates applicable to our floating rate debt (including the mark-to-market impact on any of our interest rate swaps that may not be designated as fair value hedges); cost fluctuations, such as the recent increases in the cost of oil, steel and employee-related compensation and healthcare benefits; the need to charge against earnings any expenditures relating to a potential acquisition that we determine will not be consummated (such as financing commitment fees, merger and acquisition advisory fees and professional fees) previously capitalized; or the possible need, from time to time, to record goodwill impairment charges or other write-offs or charges due to a variety of occurrences, such as the adoption of new accounting standards, store divestitures, consolidations or closings, restructurings, the refinancing of existing indebtedness, the impairment of assets or the buy-out of equipment leases. our substantial debt exposes us to various risks. at december 31, 2006, our total indebtedness was approximately $2.7 billion, including $146 million of subordinated convertible debentures. our substantial indebtedness has the potential to affect us adversely in a number of ways. for example, it will or could: require us to devote a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, reducing the funds available for other purposes or otherwise constraining our financial flexibility; affect our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly since substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests relating to existing indebtedness; or decrease our profitability or cash flow. further, if we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include: reducing or delaying capital expenditures; seeking additional capital; selling assets; or restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness. even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may continue to be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates that are linked to changing market interest rates. as a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase our interest expense and our debt service obligations. at december 31, 2006, including the effect of our interest rate swap and cap agreements, we had approximately $1.4 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. this amount represents approximately 53 percent of our total indebtedness, excluding our subordinated convertible debentures. see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. 9 table of contents we are subject to an ongoing inquiry by the sec. as previously reported, the company is the subject of a non-public, fact-finding inquiry by the sec that appears to relate to a broad range of the company accounting practices and does not seem to be confined to a specific time period. in august 2004, we issued a press release and filed a form 8-k disclosing the existence of the sec inquiry. in march 2005, our board of directors formed the special committee of independent directors to review matters related to the sec inquiry. our board of directors received and acted upon findings of the special committee in january 2006. the actions that we took with respect to the special committee findings and actions that we took with respect to certain other accounting matters, including the restatement of previously issued consolidated financial statements for 2003 and 2002, are discussed in our 2005 form 10-k. we are cooperating with the sec in its ongoing inquiry. the u.s. attorney office has also requested information from the company informally and by subpoena about matters related to the sec inquiry. we are also cooperating fully with this office. however, we cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries, whether any proceeding relating to them will be brought or when these matters might be resolved. these matters have the potential to adversely affect us in a number of ways, including the following: we are likely to continue to incur additional expenses in connection with responding to the inquiries, regardless of the outcome, including expenses related to our indemnification obligations to our directors, officers and certain current and former employees: responding to the inquiries has in the past diverted and may continue to divert the time and attention of our management from normal business operations; and if proceedings are brought, depending on the outcome, we may be required to pay fines and/or take corrective actions that would adversely affect our operations. if we are ultimately required to pay significant amounts and/or take significant corrective actions, our results and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. in addition, regardless of the outcome, the publicity surrounding the inquiries and the potential risks associated with the inquiries could negatively impact the perception of our company by investors and others, which could adversely affect the price of our securities, our access to the capital markets and/or our borrowing costs. we are subject to certain ongoing class action lawsuits. three class action lawsuits have been filed against the company, as described in greater detail under item 3 legal proceedings. all three of the complaints allege, among other things, that (i) certain of the company sec filings and other public statements contained false and misleading statements which resulted in damages to the plaintiffs and the members of the purported class when they purchased the company securities and (ii) the conduct in connection therewith violated section 10(b) of the exchange act, sec rule 10b-5 and, in the case of the individual defendants, section 20(a) of the exchange act. the complaints seek unspecified compensatory damages, costs and expenses. we intend to defend against these actions vigorously. however, we do not know what the outcome of these proceedings will be and, if we do not prevail, we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts. further, regardless of the outcome, we may incur significant defense costs, and the time and attention of our management may be diverted from normal business operations. if we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. we are exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business, and our insurance policies may not fully cover them. we are in the ordinary course exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business. these claims include those relating to (i) personal injury or property damage involving equipment rented or sold by us, (ii) motor 10 table of contents vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees and (iii) employment related claims. further, as described elsewhere in this report, several shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits have been filed against us. currently, we carry a broad range of insurance for the protection of our assets and operations. however, such insurance may not fully cover these claims for a number of reasons, including: our insurance policies are often subject to significant deductibles or self-insured retentions: $2 million per occurrence for each general liability or automobile liability claim, and $1 million per occurrence for each workers compensation claim; the structure of these programs reflect what we believe are market conditions for companies our size; our director &amp; officer liability insurance policy has no deductible for individual non-indemnifiable loss coverage, but is subject to a $2.5 million deductible for company reimbursement coverage and all director and officer coverage is subject to certain exclusions; we do not maintain stand-alone coverage for environmental liability (other than legally required underground storage tank coverage), since we believe the cost for such coverage is high relative to the benefit that it provides; and certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits, might not be covered by our insurance. we establish and regularly evaluate our loss reserves to address business operations claims, or portions thereof, not covered by our insurance policies. to the extent that we are found liable for any significant claims that exceed our established levels of reserves, that cause us to significantly increase such reserves or that are not otherwise covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, our insurance carriers may disclaim some or all of the coverage for the class action and derivative lawsuits against us, and our indemnification costs associated with the sec inquiry may not be fully reimbursable or covered by insurance. it is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms, or not available at all. we have made numerous acquisitions, which entail certain risks, as do our other growth initiatives. we have grown in part through acquisitions and expect to continue to do so. we will consider potential acquisitions of varying sizes and may, on a selective basis, pursue acquisitions or consolidation opportunities involving other public companies or large privately-held companies. it is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. the making of acquisitions entails certain risks, including: unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations; difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company within our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; loss of key employees of the acquired company; and strains on management and other personnel time and resources both to research and integrate acquisitions. we expect to pay for future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. to the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient to fund future acquisitions, we will require additional debt or equity financing and, consequently, our indebtedness may increase as we implement our growth strategy. we have also spent considerable time, resources and efforts, apart from acquisitions, in attempting to grow our business operations over the past few years, including by building our contractor supplies business. these 11 table of contents efforts place, and are expected to continue to place, strains on our management and other personnel and resources and require timely and continued investment in facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls. we may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support our growth initiatives, which could result in our expenses increasing disproportionately to our incremental revenues, causing our operating margins and profitability to be adversely affected. if we are unable to satisfy the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, our lenders could elect to terminate the agreements and require us to repay the outstanding borrowings, or we could face other substantial costs. under the agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, we are required to, among other things, satisfy certain financial tests relating to: (a) the interest coverage ratio, (b) the ratio of funded debt to cash flow, (c) the ratio of senior secured debt to tangible assets and (d) the ratio of senior secured debt to cash flow. if we are unable to satisfy any of these covenants, the lenders could elect to terminate our senior secured credit facility and/or other agreements governing our debt and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. in such event, unless we were able to refinance the indebtedness coming due and replace our senior secured credit facility and/or the other agreements governing our debt, we would likely not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs and we would be forced to adopt an alternative strategy as described above. even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may not have sufficient liquidity for our operations. in addition to financial covenants, we are subject to various other covenants in our senior secured credit facility as well as in the other agreements governing our debt, such as a requirement to file our periodic reports with the sec in a timely manner. for example, when we were not current with our sec periodic reports as a result of our restatement process described above, we incurred in excess of $34 million in consent solicitation fees with respect to our public debt indentures in order to address non-compliance with such a covenant. in addition to the risks with respect to covenant non-compliance, compliance with covenants may restrict our ability to conduct our operations. for instance, these covenants limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur indebtedness, make prepayments of certain indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, create liens, make acquisitions, sell assets and engage in mergers and acquisitions. these covenants could adversely affect our operating results by significantly limiting our operating and financial flexibility. if we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business. if the cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under our credit facility and accounts receivable securitization facility, is not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. however, we may not succeed in obtaining the requisite additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. if we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment, making acquisitions, opening new rental locations and refinancing existing indebtedness. we may not have successfully remediated a previously identified material weakness in our internal controls and we may identify additional material weaknesses in the future. as described below under item 9a, we have in the past had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and as of december 31, 2005 had a material weakness in our financial close process. we have taken actions to remediate all material weaknesses that we previously identified and we believe that we have successfully remediated all material weaknesses, including, as of december 31, 2006, the material weakness in our financial close process. however, there can be no assurance that we will not identify additional weaknesses in the future. additionally, even if we believe we have effective control over financial reporting, the process for assessing the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting requires subjective judgments and the application of standards that are relatively new and subject to questions of interpretation. accordingly, we cannot 12 table of contents be certain that our independent auditors will agree with our assessment. if either we or our auditors ultimately conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the perception of our company may be adversely affected, which could in turn adversely affect the price of our securities, our access to the capital markets and/or our borrowing costs. goodwill related to acquisitions represents a substantial portion of our total assets. if the fair value of the goodwill should drop below the recorded value, we would be required to write-off the excess goodwill. on december 31, 2006, we had goodwill of $1.3 billion on our balance sheet, which represented approximately 25 percent of our total assets as of such date. this goodwill is an intangible asset and represents the excess of the purchase price that we paid for acquired businesses over the estimated fair value of the net assets of those businesses. of the goodwill recorded on our balance sheet at december 31, 2006, 94 percent is associated with our general rentals segment and 6 percent is associated with our trench safety, pump and power segment. we are required to test our goodwill for impairment at least annually. in general, this means that we must determine whether the fair value of the goodwill, calculated in accordance with applicable accounting standards, is at least equal to the recorded value shown on our balance sheet. if the fair value of the goodwill is less than the recorded value, we are required to write-off the excess goodwill as an operating expense. our results in 2004 were adversely affected by the write-off of approximately $139 million of goodwill related to our now discontinued traffic control operations, and our results in the preceding two years were also adversely affected by significant goodwill write-offs. based on the current performance of our general rentals and trench safety, pump and power segments, as well as current market conditions, we do not currently anticipate significant goodwill write-offs. however, in previous years we recorded significant goodwill write-offs, and we cannot be certain that a future downturn in the business or changes in market conditions will not necessitate additional write-offs in future periods. our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could lead to a decrease in our market share or in the prices that we can charge. the equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. our competitors include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations, regional competitors which operate in one or more states, public companies or divisions of public companies, and equipment vendors and dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. we may in the future encounter increased competition from our existing competitors or from new companies. competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by, among other things, decreasing our rental volumes, depressing the prices that we can charge or increasing our costs to retain employees. disruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations. our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. any disruptions in these systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. we are subject to numerous environmental and safety regulations. if we are required to incur compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our operating results could be adversely affected. our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. these laws regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and materials, and air quality. under these laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating any contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment, regardless of fault and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. our operations generally do not raise significant environmental risks, but we use hazardous materials to clean 13 table of contents and maintain equipment, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from underground and above-ground storage tanks located at certain of our locations. based on conditions currently known to us, we do not believe that any pending or likely remediation and/or compliance effort will have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot be certain, however, as to the potential financial impact on our business if new adverse environmental conditions are discovered or environmental and safety requirements become more stringent. if we are required to incur environmental compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be adversely affected depending on the magnitude of such costs. labor disputes could disrupt our ability to serve our customers and/or lead to higher labor costs. we currently have approximately 800 employees that are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 11,200 employees that are not represented by unions.various unions periodically seek to organize certain of our nonunion employees. union organizing efforts or collective bargaining negotiations could potentially lead to work stoppages and/or slowdowns or strikes by certain of our employees, which could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. in addition, these efforts could negatively affect our relationship with certain customers. further, our labor costs could increase as a result of the settlement of actual or threatened labor disputes or an increase in the number of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. fluctuations in fuel costs or reduced supplies of fuel could harm our business. we believe that one of our competitive advantages is the mobility of our fleet. accordingly, we could be adversely affected by limitations on fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices that result in higher costs to us of transporting equipment from one branch to another branch or one region to another region. a significant or protracted disruption of fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we have operations outside the united states. as a result, we may incur losses from currency conversions and have higher costs than we otherwise would have due to the need to comply with foreign laws. our operations in canada and mexico are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. these include (i) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates, (ii) the need to comply with foreign laws and regulations and (iii) the possibility of political or economic instability in foreign countries. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable rate debt and (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily associated with our canadian operations. interest rate risk. we periodically utilize interest rate swap agreements and interest rate cap agreements to manage our interest costs and exposure to changes in interest rates. as of december 31, 2006, we had swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $1.2 billion and cap agreements with an agreement notional amount of $329. the effect of the swap agreements were, at december 31, 2006, to convert $1.2 billion of our fixed rate notes to floating rate instruments. the fixed rate notes being converted consisted of (i) $445 of our 6 1 / 2 percent notes through 2012, (ii) $375 of our 7 percent notes through 2013, and (iii) $375 of our 7 3 / 4 percent senior subordinated notes through 2013. certain of these swaps contain mutual put provisions which allow either party to terminate the swap for the market value of the swap as of certain specified dates between 2007 and 2009. in february 2007, swaps with a notional of $250 were modified and, as a result, these swaps will be de-designated as fair value hedges. accordingly, there may be volatility in our future earnings. as of december 31, 2006, after giving effect to our interest rate swap and cap agreements, we had an aggregate of $1.4 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. for this purpose, the portion of the term loan subject to the cap is considered fixed. the debt that is subject to fluctuations in interest rates includes $137 of borrowings under our revolving canadian facility, $25 of borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization facility, $1.2 billion in swaps and $1 of term loans not subject to an interest rate cap. the weighted-average interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt on december 31, 2006 were (i) 6.2 percent for the revolving credit facility (which represents the canadian rate, since the amount outstanding was canadian borrowings), (ii) 5.4 percent for borrowings outstanding related to the accounts receivable securitization facility, (iii) 8.1 percent for the debt subject to our swap agreements and (iv) 7.4 percent for the term loan. as of december 31, 2006, based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, after giving effect to our interest rate swap agreements, our annual earnings would decrease by approximately $9 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of our variable rate indebtedness may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the amount of indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility and receivables securitization facility from time to time. additionally, the amount of our variable rate indebtedness may fluctuate based on changes in our interest rate swaps and caps portfolio. all such derivatives are entered into for hedging, as opposed to speculative, purposes. all of our interest rate cap agreements terminate in june 2007. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2006 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would not have a material impact on our earnings. in addition, we periodically enter into foreign exchange contracts to hedge our transaction exposures. we had no outstanding foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2006. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. 32 table of contentsrisk factors our results of operations and financial condition are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. in connection with any investment decision with respect to our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the sec. should any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted. decreases in north american construction and industrial activities could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing the demand for our equipment or the prices that we can charge. our rental equipment is used primarily in the non-residential construction industry, which is cyclical in nature. trench safety, pump and power equipment is principally used in connection with construction and industrial activities. weakness in our end markets, such as a decline in construction or industrial activity, may lead to a decrease in the demand for our equipment or the prices that we can charge. any such decrease could adversely affect our operating results by causing our revenues and gross profit margins to be reduced. the following factors, among others, may cause weakness in our end markets, either temporarily or long-term: weakness in the economy or the onset of a recession; an increase in the cost of construction materials; an increase in interest rates; adverse weather conditions which may temporarily affect a particular region; or terrorism or hostilities involving the united states or canada. our operating results may fluctuate, which could affect the trading value of our securities. we expect that our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter or over the longer term due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading value of our securities. these factors, in addition to general economic conditions, include: seasonal rental patterns of our customers, with rental activity tending to be lower in the winter; changes in the size of our rental fleet and/or in the rate at which we sell our used equipment; changes in non-residential construction spending or government funding for infrastructure and other construction projects; changes in demand for or utilization of our equipment or the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; commodity price pressures and the resultant increase in the cost of oil and steel to our equipment suppliers; other cost fluctuations, such as costs for employee-related compensation and healthcare benefits; completion of acquisitions, divestitures or recapitalizations; 9 the need to charge against earnings any expenditures relating to a potential acquisition that we determine will not be consummated (such as financing commitment fees, merger and acquisition advisory fees and professional fees) previously capitalized; or the possible need, from time to time, to record goodwill impairment charges or other write-offs or charges due to a variety of occurrences, such as the adoption of new accounting standards, rental location divestitures, consolidations or closings, restructurings, the refinancing of existing indebtedness, the impairment of assets or the buy-out of equipment leases. our substantial debt exposes us to various risks. at december 31, 2007, our total indebtedness was approximately $2.7 billion, including $146 million of subordinated convertible debentures. our substantial indebtedness has the potential to affect us adversely in a number of ways. for example, it will or could: increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; require us to devote a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, reducing the funds available for other purposes or otherwise constrain our financial flexibility; affect our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly since substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests relating to existing indebtedness; or decrease our profitability or cash flow. further, if we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include: reducing or delaying capital expenditures; limiting our growth; seeking additional capital; selling assets; or restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness. even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may continue to be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates that are linked to changing market interest rates. as a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase our interest expense and our debt service obligations. at december 31, 2007, including the effect of our interest rate swap agreements, we had approximately $1.7 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. this amount represents 65 percent of our total indebtedness, excluding our subordinated convertible debentures. in january 2008, we terminated interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $1.2 billion. had these swaps been terminated as of december 31, 2007, 18 percent of our total debt (excluding our subordinated convertible debentures) would have been floating rate debt. see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk for additional information related to interest rate risk. notwithstanding our current indebtedness level, we believe we are able to incur and carry substantially more debt. if we do so, this could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial debt. we believe we would be able to incur and service substantial additional indebtedness in the future, should business conditions or decisions so warrant. although the terms of our existing indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and 10 exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. to the extent new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries current debt levels, the substantial debt risks described above would increase. we are subject to an ongoing inquiry by the sec. we are the subject of a non-public, fact-finding inquiry by the sec that appears to relate to a broad range of the company accounting practices prior to 2005 and does not seem otherwise to be confined to a specific time period. in august 2004, we issued a press release and filed a form 8-k disclosing the existence of the sec inquiry. in march 2005, our board of directors formed the special committee of independent directors to review matters related to the sec inquiry. our board of directors received and acted upon findings of the special committee in january 2006. the actions that we took with respect to the special committee findings and actions that we took with respect to certain other accounting matters, including the restatement of previously issued consolidated financial statements for 2003 and 2002, are discussed in our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2005 (our 2005 form 10-k ). we are cooperating with the sec in its ongoing inquiry. the u.s. attorney office has also requested information from the company informally and by subpoena about matters related to the sec inquiry. we are also cooperating fully with this office. however, we cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries or when these matters might be resolved. in july 2007, the staff of the sec advised us that it intends to seek commission authorization to seek injunctive and monetary relief against us, as well as to engage in settlement discussions with us. these matters have the potential to adversely affect us in a number of ways, including the following: we are likely to continue to incur additional expenses in connection with responding to the inquiries, regardless of the outcome, including expenses related to our indemnification obligations to our directors, officers and certain current and former employees: responding to the inquiries has in the past diverted and may continue to divert the time and attention of our management from normal business operations; charges against, or settlements by, any of our former officers may generate negative publicity and adversely impact the perception of our company; and if proceedings are brought, depending on the outcome, we may be required to pay fines and/or take corrective actions that would adversely affect our operations. if we are ultimately required to pay significant amounts and/or take significant corrective actions, our results and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. in addition, regardless of the outcome, the publicity surrounding the inquiries and the potential risks associated with the inquiries could negatively impact the perception of the company by investors and others, which could adversely affect the price of our securities, our access to the capital markets and/or our borrowing costs. we are subject to certain ongoing class action lawsuits. multiple class action lawsuits have been filed against the company, as described in greater detail under item 3 legal proceedings. three complaints were filed following our public announcement of the sec inquiry. these complaints, which have been consolidated, allege, among other things, that (i) certain of the company sec filings and other public statements contained false and misleading statements which resulted in damages to the plaintiffs and the members of the purported class when they purchased the company securities and (ii) the conduct in connection therewith violated section 10(b) of the exchange act, sec rule 10b-5 and, in the case of the individual defendants, section 20(a) of the exchange act. the consolidated amended complaint asserts the same claims and seeks unspecified compensatory damages, costs and expenses. 11 three complaints were filed following our november 14, 2007 announcement that affiliates of cerberus had notified us that they were not prepared to proceed with the purchase of the company on the terms set forth in the merger agreement. these complaints, which have been consolidated, allege, among other things, that certain of the company filings with the sec, including proxy materials in connection with the special meeting of stockholders, and other public statements contained false and misleading statements and/or material omissions relating to the contemplated merger with affiliates of cerberus. each action asserts claims under sections 10(b) and 14(a) of the exchange act and sec rules 10b-5 and 14a-9, and, in the case of the individual defendants, section 20(a) of the exchange act. the complaints seek unspecified compensatory damages, costs, expenses and fees. we can give no assurances as to the outcome of these proceedings and, if we do not prevail, we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts. further, regardless of the outcome, we may incur significant defense and indemnification costs, and the time and attention of our management may be diverted from normal business operations. if we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. we are exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business, and our insurance may not fully cover them. we are in the ordinary course exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business. these claims include those relating to (i) personal injury or property damage involving equipment rented or sold by us, (ii) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees and (iii) employment related claims. further, as described elsewhere in this report, several shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits have been filed against us. currently, we carry a broad range of insurance for the protection of our assets and operations. however, such insurance may not fully cover these claims for a number of reasons, including: our insurance policies, reflecting a program structure that we believe reflects market conditions for companies our size, are often subject to significant deductibles or self-insured retentions: $2 million per occurrence for each general liability or automobile liability claim, and $1 million per occurrence for each workers compensation claim; our director and officer liability insurance policy has no deductible for individual non-indemnifiable loss coverage, but is subject to a $2.5 million deductible for company reimbursement coverage and all director and officer coverage is subject to certain exclusions; we do not maintain stand-alone coverage for environmental liability (other than legally required underground storage tank coverage), since we believe the cost for such coverage is high relative to the benefit it provides; and certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits, might not be covered by our insurance. we establish and regularly evaluate our loss reserves to address business operations claims, or portions thereof, not covered by our insurance policies. to the extent that we are found liable for any significant claims that exceed our established levels of reserves, that cause us to significantly increase such reserves or that are not otherwise covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, the class action and derivative lawsuits against us, and our indemnification costs associated with the sec and u.s. attorney office inquiries, may not be fully reimbursable or covered by insurance. it is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms, or not available at all. we have made numerous acquisitions in the past, which entail certain risks, as do any growth initiatives, including additional acquisitions or consolidations, that we may make in the future. we have historically achieved a substantial portion of our growth through acquisitions. although we have not made many acquisitions in recent years, and the making of additional acquisitions is not a planned portion of 12 our 2008 strategy, we are always open to considering potential acquisitions on a selective basis. from time-to-time we have also approached, or been approached, to explore consolidation opportunities with other public companies or large privately-held companies. whether historical or in the future, it is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. the making of acquisitions entails certain risks, including: unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations; difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company within our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; loss of key employees of the acquired company; the failure to achieve anticipated synergies; and strains on management and other personnel time and resources both to research and integrate acquisitions. we would expect to pay for any future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. to the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient in any instance, we would expect to need additional debt or equity financing, which involves its own risks. we have also spent resources and efforts, apart from acquisitions, in attempting to grow our business operations over the past few years. these efforts place strains on our management and other personnel and resources and require timely and continued investment in facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls. we may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support any of our growth initiatives, which could result in our expenses increasing disproportionately to our incremental revenues, causing our operating margins and profitability to be adversely affected. our capital stock and charter structures, as well as other factors, may affect the likelihood of a takeover or change of control of the company. our series c preferred and series d preferred stock, as described in more detail in note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, have certain rights that may impact the likelihood of a takeover or change of control of the company. these provisions include the right of the holders of the series c preferred to directly elect two directors to our board (subject to reduction if their holdings are reduced). they also include the rights of the holders of both the series c and series d preferred to have their shares redeemed at certain levels providing a guaranteed rate of return on their investment in the event of a board-approved change of control and at certain levels providing a higher guaranteed rate of return, and other rights (including the right to elect a majority of our board), in the event of a change of control that has not been approved by our board combined with a failure to offer the holders of the preferred stock the redemption rights they would have in an approved change of control context. as a result, the interests of the holders of our preferred stock may be different from, and affect, those of the holders of our common stock in a change of control scenario. in addition, as described in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements, we maintain a stockholders rights plan and certain charter provisions, such as the inability for shareholders to act by written consent, that may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or management of the company that are not approved by our board. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which under certain circumstances restricts the ability of a publicly held delaware corporation to engage in a business combination such as a merger or sale of assets with any stockholder that, together with affiliates, owns 15 percent or more of the corporation outstanding voting stock, which similarly could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of a change of control transaction. 13 our preferred stock and debt agreements limit our board ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares or otherwise return capital to our common stockholders. the terms of our series c preferred and series d preferred stock restrict us from paying or making any extraordinary dividend without the consent of the holders thereof. generally, this limitation applies to any dividends made on, or tender offers made for, our common stock if the aggregate amount of such dividends and repurchases would exceed 5 percent of our market capitalization at the time of payment (tested on a rolling 12-month basis). if common stock repurchases are made other than by means of a tender offer, the limitation (inclusive of any common stock dividends and repurchases through tender offers) is 7.5 percent of our market capitalization (measured and tested the same way), which increases to a 10 percent limitation beginning in early 2009. although currently less restrictive in the aggregate amount than the above-described provisions, the indentures governing our high-yield debt and the agreement governing our credit facility also contain restrictions on making what are known as restricted payments which typically are defined to include most cash payments to common stockholders, whether through dividends or common stock repurchases. turnover of members of our management and our ability to attract and retain key personnel may affect our ability to efficiently manage our business and execute our strategy. our success is dependent, in part, on the experience and skills of our management team, and competition in our industry and the business world generally for top management talent is significant. although we believe we generally have competitive pay packages, we can provide no assurances that our efforts to attract and retain senior management staff will be successful. moreover, the termination of the merger agreement with cerberus affiliates, the resulting drop in our stock price and our continued operation under the stewardship of an interim chief executive officer have created perceived uncertainties that may result in increased difficulties and expense in recruiting and retaining employees, particularly senior management. if we are unable to fill and keep filled all of our senior management positions, or if we lose the services of any key member of our senior management team and are unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely fashion, we may be challenged to effectively manage our business and execute our strategy. our cost reduction programs may not achieve the cost savings and operational improvements and efficiencies we expect, and we may have to implement further cost reduction programs and incur additional related charges. in 2007, we implemented a workforce reduction program, a strategic sourcing initiative and other initiatives designed to reduce operating costs and increase organizational efficiencies. though we have already realized substantial cost savings and operational improvements from these efforts, the extent to which we achieve our remaining and any additional goals will depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. even if we take all of the steps that we expect to take, we may not achieve the cost reduction and operational efficiencies we anticipate, the reductions and efficiencies we do achieve may not be realized on the timetable we anticipate and there may be productivity, revenue or other consequences resulting from such programs and initiatives that will adversely effect us. therefore, the anticipated benefits of our existing and future cost saving initiatives may not be fully realized. if we are unable to satisfy the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, our lenders could elect to terminate the agreements and require us to repay the outstanding borrowings, or we could face other substantial costs. under the agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, we are required to, among other things, satisfy certain financial tests relating to: (a) the interest coverage ratio, (b) the ratio of funded debt to cash flow, (c) the ratio of senior secured debt to tangible assets and (d) the ratio of senior secured debt to cash flow. if we 14 are unable to satisfy any of these covenants, the lenders could elect to terminate our senior secured credit facility and/or other agreements governing our debt and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. in such event, unless we were able to refinance the indebtedness coming due and replace our senior secured credit facility and/or the other agreements governing our debt, we would likely not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs and we would be forced to adopt an alternative strategy as described above. even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may not have sufficient liquidity for our operations. in addition to financial covenants, we are subject to various other covenants in our senior secured credit facility as well as in the other agreements governing our debt, such as a requirement to file our periodic reports with the sec in a timely manner. for example, when we were not current with our sec periodic reports as a result of our restatement process described above, in 2005 we paid in excess of $34 million in consent solicitation fees with respect to our public debt indentures in order to address non-compliance with such a covenant. in addition to the risks with respect to covenant non-compliance, compliance with covenants may restrict our ability to conduct our operations. for instance, these covenants limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur indebtedness, make prepayments of certain indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, create liens, make acquisitions, sell assets and engage in mergers and acquisitions. these covenants could adversely affect our operating results by significantly limiting our operating and financial flexibility. if we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business. if the cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under our credit facility and accounts receivable securitization facility, is not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. however, we may not succeed in obtaining the requisite additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. if we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment, growth plans and refinancing existing indebtedness. goodwill related to acquisitions represents a substantial portion of our total assets. if the fair value of the goodwill should drop below the recorded value, we would be required to write-off the excess goodwill. on december 31, 2007, we had goodwill of $1.4 billion on our balance sheet, which represented approximately 23 percent of our total assets as of such date. this goodwill is an intangible asset and represents the excess of the purchase price that we paid for acquired businesses over the estimated fair value of the net assets of those businesses. of the goodwill recorded on our balance sheet at december 31, 2007, 94 percent is associated with our general rentals segment and 6 percent is associated with our trench safety, pump and power segment. we are required to test our goodwill for impairment at least annually. our results in 2004 were adversely affected by the write-off of approximately $139 million of goodwill related to our discontinued traffic control operations, and our results in the preceding two years were also adversely affected by significant goodwill write-offs. based on the current performance of our general rentals and trench safety, pump and power segments, as well as current market conditions, we do not currently anticipate significant goodwill write-offs. however, in previous years we recorded significant goodwill write-offs, and we cannot be certain that a future downturn in the business or changes in market conditions will not necessitate additional write-offs in future periods. our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could lead to a decrease in our market share or in the prices that we can charge. the equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. our competitors include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations, regional competitors which operate in one or more states, public companies or divisions of public companies, and equipment vendors and dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. we may in the future encounter increased competition from our existing 15 competitors or from new companies. competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by, among other things, decreasing our rental volumes, depressing the prices that we can charge or increasing our costs to retain employees. disruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations. our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. any disruptions in these systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. we are subject to numerous environmental and safety regulations. if we are required to incur compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our operating results could be adversely affected. our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. these laws regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and materials, and air quality. under these laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating any contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment, regardless of fault and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. our operations generally do not raise significant environmental risks, but we use hazardous materials to clean and maintain equipment, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from underground and above-ground storage tanks located at certain of our locations. based on conditions currently known to us, we do not believe that any pending or likely remediation and/or compliance effort will have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot be certain, however, as to the potential financial impact on our business if new adverse environmental conditions are discovered or environmental and safety requirements become more stringent. if we are required to incur environmental compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be adversely affected depending on the magnitude of such costs. labor disputes could disrupt our ability to serve our customers and/or lead to higher labor costs. we currently have approximately 800 employees that are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 10,100 employees that are not represented by unions. various unions periodically seek to organize certain of our nonunion employees. union organizing efforts or collective bargaining negotiations could potentially lead to work stoppages and/or slowdowns or strikes by certain of our employees, which could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. in addition, these efforts could negatively affect our relationship with certain customers. further, our labor costs could increase as a result of the settlement of actual or threatened labor disputes or an increase in the number of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. fluctuations in fuel costs or reduced supplies of fuel could harm our business. we believe that one of our competitive advantages is the mobility of our fleet. accordingly, we could be adversely affected by limitations on fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices that result in higher costs to us of transporting equipment from one branch to another branch or one region to another region. a significant or protracted disruption of fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 we have operations outside the united states. as a result, we may incur losses from currency conversions and have higher costs than we otherwise would have due to the need to comply with foreign laws. our operations in canada and mexico are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. these include (i) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates, (ii) the need to comply with foreign laws and regulations, as well as u.s. laws and regulations applicable to our operations in foreign jurisdictions, and (iii) the possibility of political or economic instability in foreign countries. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable rate debt and (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily associated with our canadian operations. 35 interest rate risk. during 2007 and earlier periods, we utilized interest rate swap agreements and interest rate cap agreements to manage our interest costs and exposure to changes in interest rates. as of december 31, 2007, we had swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $1.2 billion. the effect of the swap agreements were, at december 31, 2007, to convert $1.2 billion of our fixed rate notes to floating rate instruments. the fixed rate notes being converted consisted of (i) $445 of our 6 1 /2 percent notes through 2012, (ii) $375 of our 7 percent notes through 2014, and (iii) $375 of our 7 3 /4 percent senior subordinated notes through 2013. as of december 31, 2007, after giving effect to our interest rate swap agreements, we had an aggregate of $1.7 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. as of december 31, 2007, the debt that was subject to fluctuations in interest rates included $140 of borrowings under our canadian revolving facility, $1.2 billion in swaps and $327 of term loans. the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt on december 31, 2007 were (i) 6.5 percent for the revolving credit facility (which represents the canadian rate, since the amount outstanding was canadian borrowings), (ii) 7.6 percent for the debt subject to our swap agreements and (iii) 7.1 percent for the term loan. as of december 31, 2007, based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, after giving effect to our interest rate swap agreements, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $10 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of our variable rate indebtedness may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the amount of indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility and receivables securitization facility. additionally, in january 2008 we terminated all of our interest rate swap agreements and made a payment of $4. had these swaps been terminated as of december 31, 2007, we would have had an aggregate of $467 of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2007 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would not have a material impact on our earnings. we had no outstanding foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2007. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. 36risk factors our business, results of operations and financial condition are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. in connection with any investment decision with respect to our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the sec. should any of these risks materialize, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted, which in turn could affect the trading value of our securities. the current economic downturn, and resulting decreases in north american construction and industrial activities, has adversely affected our revenues and operating results and may further decrease the demand for our equipment and the prices that we can charge. our rental equipment is used primarily in the non-residential construction industry, which is cyclical in nature. trench safety, pump and power equipment is principally used in connection with construction and industrial activities. weakness in our end markets, such as the decline in construction and industrial activity our industry has been experiencing as a result of the current recession, has led to a decrease in the demand for our equipment and the prices that we can charge and will likely lead to further decreases. such decreases adversely affect our operating results by causing our revenues to decline and, because certain of our costs are fixed, our operating margins to be reduced. 9 table of contents the following factors, among others, may cause further weakness in our end markets, either temporarily or long-term: the depth and duration of the current economic downturn and lack of availability of credit; a decrease in expected levels of infrastructure spending; an increase in the cost of construction materials; an increase in interest rates; adverse weather conditions, which may temporarily affect a particular region; or terrorism or hostilities involving the united states or canada. if we are unable to collect on contracts with customers, our operating results would be adversely affected. one of the reasons some of our customers find it more attractive to rent equipment than own that equipment is the need to deploy their capital elsewhere. this has been particularly true in industries with high growth rates such as the construction industry. however, some of our customers may have liquidity issues and ultimately may not be able to fulfill the terms of their rental agreements with us. if we are unable to manage credit risk issues adequately, or if a large number of customers should have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses could increase above historical levels and our operating results would be adversely affected. further, delinquencies and credit losses generally can be expected to increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. our operating results may fluctuate, which could affect the trading value of our securities. we expect that our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter or over the longer term due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading value of our securities. these factors, in addition to general economic conditions, include: seasonal rental patterns of our customers, with rental activity tending to be lower in the winter; changes in the size of our rental fleet and/or in the rate at which we sell our used equipment; changes in non-residential construction spending or government funding for infrastructure and other construction projects; changes in demand for, or utilization of, our equipment or in the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; commodity price pressures and the resultant increase in the cost of fuel and steel to our equipment suppliers; other cost fluctuations, such as costs for employee-related compensation and healthcare benefits; labor shortages, work stoppages or other labor difficulties; potential enactment of new legislation affecting our operations or labor relations; completion of acquisitions, divestitures or recapitalizations; the need to charge against earnings any expenditures relating to potential acquisitions as a result of a recent change in accounting rules (see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements); increases in interest rates and related increases in our interest expense and our debt service obligations; the possible need, from time to time, to record goodwill impairment charges or other write-offs or charges due to a variety of occurrences, such as the adoption of new accounting standards, the impairment of assets, rental location divestitures, dislocation in the equity and/or credit markets, consolidations or closings, restructurings, the refinancing of existing indebtedness or the buy-out of equipment leases; and currency risks and other risks of international operations. 10 table of contents our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future for a number of reasons, including: announcements of developments related to our business; market perceptions of the likelihood of our involvement in merger and acquisition activity; variations in our revenues, gross margins, earnings or other financial results from investors expectations; departure of key personnel; purchases or sales of large blocks of our stock or transactions by insiders; fluctuations in results of our operations and general conditions in the economy, our market, and the markets served by our customers; investor perceptions of the equipment rental industry in general and our company in particular; and the operating and stock performance of comparable companies. in addition, prices in the stock market have been volatile in recent months. in many cases, the fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. as a result, the price of our common stock could fluctuate in the future without regard to our or our competitors operating performance. our substantial debt exposes us to various risks. at december 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was approximately $3.3 billion, including $146 million of subordinated convertible debentures. our substantial indebtedness has the potential to affect us adversely in a number of ways. for example, it will or could: increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; require us to devote a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, reducing the funds available for other purposes or otherwise constraining our financial flexibility; restrict our ability to move operating cash flows to holdings (for example, the restricted payment basket capacity provided for in the indenture for our 6 1 / 2 percent senior notes due 2012 has been fully depleted by our 2008 activity, including our fourth quarter goodwill impairment charge); affect our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly since substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests relating to existing indebtedness; and decrease our profitability or cash flow. further, if we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include: reducing or delaying capital expenditures; limiting our growth; seeking additional capital; selling assets; or restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness. even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may continue to be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. 11 table of contents a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates that are linked to changing market interest rates. as a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase our interest expense and our debt service obligations. at december 31, 2008, we had $948 million of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. this amount represents 30 percent of our total indebtedness, excluding our subordinated convertible debentures. see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk for additional information related to interest rate risk. if we are unable to satisfy the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, our lenders could elect to terminate the agreements and require us to repay the outstanding borrowings, or we could face other substantial costs. under the agreement governing our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (our abl facility ), we are required to, among other things, satisfy certain financial tests relating to: (i) the fixed charge coverage ratio and (ii) the ratio of senior secured debt to adjusted ebitda. under our accounts receivable securitization facility, we are required, among other things, to maintain certain financial tests relating to: (i) the default ratio, (ii) the delinquency ratio, (iii) the dilution ratio and (iv) days sales outstanding. if we are unable to satisfy any of these covenants, the lenders could elect to terminate our abl facility, accounts receivable securitization facility and/or other agreements governing our debt and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. in such event, unless we were able to refinance the indebtedness coming due and replace our abl facility, accounts receivable securitization facility and/or the other agreements governing our debt, we would likely not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs and we would be forced to adopt an alternative strategy as described above. even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may not have sufficient liquidity for our operations. in addition to financial covenants, we are subject to various other covenants in our abl facility, accounts receivable securitization facility, as well as in the other agreements governing our debt, such as a requirement to file our periodic reports with the sec. in addition to the risks with respect to covenant non-compliance, compliance with covenants may restrict our ability to conduct our operations. for instance, these covenants limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make prepayments of certain indebtedness, pay dividends, repurchase common stock, make investments, create liens, make acquisitions, sell assets and engage in mergers and acquisitions. these covenants could adversely affect our operating results by significantly limiting our operating and financial flexibility. if we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business. if the cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under our abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility, is not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. however, we may not succeed in obtaining the requisite additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing as a result of prevailing interest rates or other factors, including the presence of covenants or other restrictions under our abl facility and/or other agreements governing our debt and the depth and duration of the current economic downturn. in the event we seek to obtain equity financing, our stockholders may experience dilution as a result of the issuance of additional equity securities. this dilution may be significant depending upon the amount of equity securities that we issue and the prices at which we issue such securities. if we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment, growth plans and refinancing existing indebtedness. 12 table of contents we are subject to certain ongoing class action and derivative lawsuits, which could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. multiple purported class action and derivative lawsuits have been filed against the company, as described in greater detail under item 3 legal proceedings. these include three complaints that were filed following our november 14, 2007 announcement that affiliates of cerberus had notified us that they were not prepared to proceed with the purchase of the company on the terms set forth in the merger agreement entered into with such persons. these complaints, which have been consolidated, allege, among other things, that certain of the company filings with the sec, including proxy materials in connection with the special meeting of stockholders, and other public statements contained false and misleading statements and/or material omissions relating to the contemplated merger with affiliates of cerberus. each action asserts claims under sections 10(b) and 14(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and sec rules 10b-5 and 14a-9 thereunder and, in the case of the individual defendants, section 20(a) of the exchange act. the complaints seek unspecified compensatory damages, costs, expenses and fees. we can give no assurances as to the outcome of these proceedings or any other stockholder lawsuit pending against the company and, if we do not prevail, we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts. further, regardless of the outcome, we may incur significant defense and indemnification costs, and the time and attention of our management may be diverted from normal business operations. if we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments, to the extent not covered, advanced or timely reimbursed by insurance, could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. as previously reported, on march 10, 2008, we announced that we had entered into a memorandum of understanding with lead plaintiff counsel to settle an action consolidating three purported class action lawsuits that were filed following our august 2004 announcement of an sec inquiry into the company historical accounting practices. the memorandum of understanding is subject to final court approval, and, although preliminary court approval has been received, we cannot predict when or whether this final condition will be satisfied. further, we received a letter from counsel for an alleged stockholder, which demands, among other things, that we investigate the agreement of our board of directors to enter into the memorandum of understanding. while, upon the recommendation of a new committee of independent directors, our board determined that it would not be in the best interests of the company to take further action at this time, we cannot predict whether the relevant stockholder will pursue this matter further. former officers of ours are subject to an ongoing inquiry by the u.s. attorney office for the district of connecticut, which could adversely affect our results of operations and investor perceptions. although, as announced on september 8, 2008 and described in greater detail under item 3 legal proceedings, the sec inquiry described above was subsequently settled, we continue to cooperate fully with the u.s. attorney office for the district of connecticut, which has requested information from the company informally and by subpoena about matters related to the sec inquiry. as a result, we are likely to continue to incur additional expenses (including indemnification costs) and to experience diversion of management time and attention in connection with responding to such requests, regardless of the outcome. two of our former chief financial officers (from prior to 2005) have been charged with securities fraud and other violations by both the u.s. attorney office and the sec, and one has pled guilty and the other is scheduled to go to trial in 2009. this trial, and any additional charges against, or settlements by, any of our former officers may generate negative publicity and adversely affect the perception of the company by investors and others (which, in turn, could affect the price of our securities, our access to capital markets and/or our borrowing costs). we cannot predict the schedule or outcome of the trial or when these matters might be resolved. we are exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business, and our insurance may not fully cover them. we are in the ordinary course exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business. these claims include those relating to (i) personal injury or property damage involving equipment rented or sold by us, (ii) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees and (iii) employment-related claims. further, as 13 table of contents described elsewhere in this report, several stockholder derivative and class action lawsuits have been filed against us. currently, we carry a broad range of insurance for the protection of our assets and operations. however, such insurance may not fully cover these claims for a number of reasons, including: our insurance policies, reflecting a program structure that we believe reflects market conditions for companies our size, are often subject to significant deductibles or self-insured retentions: $2 million per occurrence for each general liability or automobile liability claim, and $1 million per occurrence for each workers compensation claim; our director and officer liability insurance policy has no deductible for individual non-indemnifiable loss coverage, but is subject to a $2.5 million deductible for company reimbursement coverage and all director and officer coverage is subject to certain exclusions; we do not maintain stand-alone coverage for environmental liability (other than legally required coverage), since we believe the cost for such coverage is high relative to the benefit it provides; and certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits, might not be covered by our insurance. we establish and regularly evaluate our loss reserves to address business operations claims, or portions thereof, not covered by our insurance policies. to the extent that we are found liable for any significant claim or claims that exceed our established levels of reserves, that cause us to significantly increase such reserves or that are not otherwise covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, the purported class action and derivative lawsuits against us, and our indemnification costs associated with the sec and u.s. attorney office inquiries, may not be fully reimbursable or covered by insurance. it is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or at all. we have made numerous acquisitions in the past, which entail certain risks, as do any growth initiatives, including additional acquisitions or consolidations, that we may make in the future. we have historically achieved a substantial portion of our growth through acquisitions. although we have not made many acquisitions in recent years, and the making of additional acquisitions is not a significant portion of our planned 2009 strategy, we are always open to considering potential acquisitions on a selective basis. from time-to-time we have also approached, or been approached, to explore consolidation opportunities with other public companies or large privately-held companies. whether historical or in the future, it is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. the making of acquisitions entails certain risks, including: unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations or that are not subject to indemnification or reimbursement by the seller; difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company within our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; loss of key employees of the acquired company; the failure to achieve anticipated synergies; and strains on management and other personnel time and resources to evaluate, negotiate and integrate acquisitions. we would expect to pay for any future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. to the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient in any instance, we would expect to need additional debt or equity financing, which involves its own risks. 14 table of contents we have also spent resources and efforts, apart from acquisitions, in attempting to expand our rental business over the past few years. these efforts place strains on our management and other personnel time and resources, and require timely and continued investment in facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls. we may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support any of our growth initiatives, which could result in our expenses increasing disproportionately to our incremental revenues, causing our operating margins and profitability to be adversely affected. our rights plan and charter provisions, as well as other factors, may affect the likelihood of a takeover or change of control of the company. we have in place a stockholders rights plan and certain charter provisions, such as the inability for stockholders to act by written consent, that may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or management of the company that are not approved by our board, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. as previously reported, on october 16, 2008, we amended our rights plan to reduce the beneficial ownership threshold required to trigger rights under the plan from a 25 percent ownership interest to a 15 percent ownership interest. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which under certain circumstances restricts the ability of a publicly held delaware corporation to engage in a business combination, such as a merger or sale of assets, with any stockholder that, together with affiliates, owns 15 percent or more of the corporation outstanding voting stock, which similarly could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of a change of control transaction. in addition, under our abl facility, a change of control (as defined in the credit agreement) constitutes an event of default, entitling our lenders to terminate our abl facility and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. a change of control (as defined in the applicable agreement) is also a termination event under our accounts receivable securitization facility and generally would require us to offer to repurchase our outstanding senior and senior subordinated notes, including the new 14 percent senior notes due 2014 (the 14 percent holdco notes ). as a result, the provisions of the agreements governing our debt also may affect the likelihood of a takeover or other change of control. turnover of members of our management and our ability to attract and retain key personnel may affect our ability to efficiently manage our business and execute our strategy. our success is dependent, in part, on the experience and skills of our management team, and competition in our industry and the business world generally for top management talent is significant. although we believe we generally have competitive pay packages, we can provide no assurance that our efforts to attract and retain senior management staff will be successful. moreover, given the recent declines in our stock price, it may be more difficult and expensive to recruit and retain employees, particularly senior management, through grants of stock or stock options. this in turn could place greater pressure on the company to increase the cash component of its compensation packages, which may adversely affect our operating results. if we are unable to fill and keep filled all of our senior management positions, or if we lose the services of any key member of our senior management team and are unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely fashion, we may be challenged to effectively manage our business and execute our strategy. our operational and cost reduction strategies may not generate the improvements and efficiencies we expect. we are pursuing a strategy of analyzing and optimizing our field operations in order to improve sales force effectiveness, and to focus our sales force efforts on increasing revenues from our national account customers and from other large customers. we are also continuing to pursue an earlier-started overall cost reduction program, which achieved substantial cost savings in 2008. the extent to which these strategies will achieve our desired efficiencies and goals in 2009 and beyond is uncertain, as their success depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. even if we carry out these strategies in the manner we currently expect, we may not achieve the efficiencies or savings we anticipate, or on the timetable we anticipate, and there may be 15 table of contents unforeseen productivity, revenue or other consequences resulting from our strategies that will adversely affect us. therefore, there can be no guarantee that our strategies will prove effective in achieving desired profitability, margins or returns to stockholders. we are dependent on our relationships with key suppliers to obtain equipment and other supplies for our business on acceptable terms. we have achieved significant cost savings through our centralization of equipment and, more recently, non-equipment purchases. however, as a result, we depend on and are exposed to the credit risk of a group of key suppliers. while we make every effort to evaluate our counterparties prior to entering into long-term and other significant procurement contracts, we cannot predict the impact on our suppliers of the current economic environment and other developments in their respective businesses. insolvency, financial difficulties or other factors may result in our suppliers not being able to fulfill the terms of their agreements with us. further, such factors may render suppliers unwilling to extend contracts that provide favorable terms to the company or may force them to seek to renegotiate existing contracts with us. although we believe we have alternative sources of supply for the equipment and other supplies used in our business, termination of our relationship with any of our key suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the unlikely event that we were unable to obtain adequate equipment and other supplies from other sources in a timely manner or at all. continued deterioration in general economic and market conditions may further impact the company business, financial condition and results of operations. continued deterioration in general economic and market conditions may further impact the company business, financial condition and results of operations. for example, the prevailing credit crisis may significantly affect the ability of the company to refinance existing indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. in addition, such conditions may result in further downward pressure on our stock price and market capitalization generally. as previously announced, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we incurred an aggregate non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $1.1 billion. we can provide no assurance that further declines in our stock price and market capitalization, together with other considerations, will not result in additional impairments to goodwill or other intangible assets or the need to conduct interim impairment reviews outside of our annual impairment test. our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could lead to a decrease in our market share or in the prices that we can charge. the equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. our competitors include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations, regional competitors which operate in one or more states, public companies or divisions of public companies, and equipment vendors and dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. we may in the future encounter increased competition from our existing competitors or from new companies. competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by, among other things, decreasing our rental volumes, depressing the prices that we can charge or increasing our costs to retain employees. disruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations. our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. any disruptions in these systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. in addition, because our systems sometimes contain information about individuals and businesses, our failure to appropriately maintain the security of the data we hold, whether as a result of our own error or the malfeasance or errors of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenues, increased costs and other material adverse effects on our results of operations. 16 table of contents we are subject to numerous environmental and safety regulations. if we are required to incur compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. these laws regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous waste and materials, and air quality. under these laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating any contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment, regardless of fault and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. our operations generally do not raise significant environmental risks, but we use hazardous materials to clean and maintain equipment, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from above-ground storage tanks located at certain of our locations. based on conditions currently known to us, we do not believe that any pending or likely remediation and/or compliance effort will have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot be certain, however, as to the potential financial impact on our business if new adverse environmental conditions are discovered or environmental and safety requirements become more stringent. if we are required to incur environmental compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected, depending on the magnitude of such costs. we have operations throughout the united states, which exposes us to multiple state and local regulations, in addition to federal law and requirements as a government contractor. changes in applicable law, regulations or requirements, or our material failure to comply with any of them, can increase our costs and have other negative impacts on our business. our over 600 branch locations are located in 48 different states, which exposes us to a host of different state and local regulations, in addition to federal law and regulatory and contractual requirements we face as a government contractor. these laws and requirements address multiple aspects of our operations, such as worker safety, consumer rights, privacy, employee benefits and more, and can often have different requirements in different jurisdictions. changes in these requirements, or any material failure by our branches to comply with them, can increase our costs, affect our reputation, limit our business, drain management time and attention and generally otherwise impact our operations in adverse ways. labor disputes could disrupt our ability to serve our customers and/or lead to higher labor costs. we currently have approximately 700 employees who are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 9,200 employees who are not represented by unions. various unions periodically seek to organize certain of our nonunion employees. union organizing efforts or collective bargaining negotiations could potentially lead to work stoppages and/or slowdowns or strikes by certain of our employees, which could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. further, settlement of actual or threatened labor disputes or an increase in the number of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements can have unknown effects on our labor costs, productivity and flexibility. in addition, pending federal legislation would make it easier for unions to organize by requiring employers to recognize unions based on card check authorization rather than by secret ballot election, and would impose arbitration to settle first-time collective bargaining agreements if the parties have not reached agreement within 120 days of recognition. the enactment of such legislation could significantly increase labor costs in ways that are difficult to predict. 17 table of contents fluctuations in fuel costs or reduced supplies of fuel could harm our business. we believe that one of our competitive advantages is the mobility of our fleet. accordingly, we could be adversely affected by limitations on fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices that result in higher costs to us of transporting equipment from one branch to another branch or one region to another region. a significant or protracted disruption of fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. if our maintenance and equipment replacement costs increase as our rental fleet ages and we are unable to pass along such costs, our earnings will decrease. as we age our fleet of rental equipment, which we expect to do in 2009, the cost of maintaining such equipment, if not replaced within a certain period of time, may increase. any increases in such costs will cause our earnings to decrease. in addition, the cost of the new equipment we use in our rental fleet is increasing and therefore we may spend more for replacement equipment. these cost increases are due primarily to increased material costs, including increases in the cost of steel, which is a primary material used in most of the equipment we use, and increases in the cost of fuel, which is used in the manufacturing process and in delivering equipment to us. these increases could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our rental fleet is subject to residual value risk upon disposition, and may not sell at the prices or in the quantities we expect. the market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. the market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including: the market price for new equipment of a like kind; wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age and the performance of preventive maintenance; the time of year that it is sold; the supply of used equipment on the market; the existence and capacities of different sales outlets; the age of the equipment at the time it is sold; worldwide and domestic demand for used equipment; and general economic conditions. we include in income from operations the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of an item of equipment sold. changes in our assumptions regarding depreciation could change both our depreciation expense as well as the gain or loss realized upon disposal of equipment. sales of our used rental equipment at prices that fall significantly below our projections and/or in lesser quantities than we anticipate, will have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we have operations outside the united states. as a result, we may incur losses from currency conversions and have higher costs than we otherwise would have due to the need to comply with foreign laws. our operations in canada and mexico are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. these include (i) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates, (ii) the need to comply with foreign laws and regulations, as well as u.s. laws and regulations applicable to our operations in foreign jurisdictions, and (iii) the possibility of political or economic instability in foreign countries. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable rate debt and (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily associated with our canadian operations. interest rate risk . during 2007 and earlier periods, we utilized interest rate swap agreements and interest rate cap agreements to manage our interest costs and exposure to changes in interest rates. as of december 31, 2007, we had swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $1.2 billion. the effect of the swap agreements was, at december 31, 2007, to convert $1.2 billion of our fixed rate notes to floating rate instruments. in january 2008, we terminated all of our interest rate swap agreements and made a payment of $4. there were no outstanding derivative contracts (including interest rate swap or cap agreements) at december 31, 2008. as of december 31, 2008, we had an aggregate of $948 of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. as of december 31, 2008, the variable rate debt included $689 of borrowings under our abl facility and $259 of borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization facility. the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt on december 31, 2008 were (i) 4.4 percent for the abl facility and (ii) 2.1 percent for the accounts receivable securitization facility. as of december 31, 2008, based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $6 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of our variable rate indebtedness may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the amount of indebtedness outstanding under our abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. 39 table of contents currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2008 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would not have a material impact on our earnings. we had no outstanding foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2008. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. 40 table of contentsrisk factors our business, results of operations and financial condition are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. in connection with any investment decision with respect to our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the sec. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. should any of these risks materialize, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted, which in turn could affect the trading value of our securities. the current economic downturn, and resulting decreases in north american construction and industrial activities, has adversely affected our revenues and operating results and may further decrease the demand for our equipment and the prices that we can charge. our rental equipment is used primarily in the non-residential construction industry, which is cyclical in nature. trench safety, pump and power equipment is principally used in connection with construction and industrial activities. weakness in our end markets, such as the decline in construction and industrial activity our industry has been experiencing as a result of the current economic environment, has led to a decrease in the demand for our equipment and the prices that we can charge and will likely lead to further decreases. such decreases adversely affect our operating results by causing our revenues to decline and, because certain of our costs are fixed, our operating margins to be reduced. the following factors, among others, may cause further weakness in our end markets, either temporarily or long-term: the depth and duration of the current economic downturn and lack of availability of credit; a decrease in expected levels of infrastructure spending, including lower than expected government funding for economic stimulus projects; an increase in the cost of construction materials; an increase in interest rates; adverse weather conditions, which may temporarily affect a particular region; or terrorism or hostilities involving the united states or canada. if we are unable to collect on contracts with customers, our operating results would be adversely affected. one of the reasons some of our customers find it more attractive to rent equipment than own that equipment is the need to deploy their capital elsewhere. this has been particularly true in industries with high growth rates such as the construction industry. however, some of our customers may have liquidity issues and ultimately may not be able to fulfill the terms of their rental agreements with us. if we are unable to manage credit risk issues adequately, or if a large number of customers should have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses could increase above historical levels and our operating results would be adversely affected. further, delinquencies and credit losses generally can be expected to increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. 10 table of contents our operating results may fluctuate, which could affect the trading value of our securities. we expect that our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter or over the longer term due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading value of our securities. these factors, in addition to general economic conditions, include: seasonal rental patterns of our customers, with rental activity tending to be lower in the winter; changes in the size of our rental fleet and/or in the rate at which we sell our used equipment; changes in non-residential construction spending or government funding for infrastructure and other construction projects; changes in demand for, or utilization of, our equipment or in the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; commodity price pressures and the resultant increase in the cost of fuel and steel to our equipment suppliers, which can result in increased equipment costs for us; other cost fluctuations, such as costs for employee-related compensation and healthcare benefits; labor shortages, work stoppages or other labor difficulties; potential enactment of new legislation affecting our operations or labor relations; completion of acquisitions, divestitures or recapitalizations; increases in interest rates and related increases in our interest expense and our debt service obligations; the possible need, from time to time, to record goodwill impairment charges or other write-offs or charges due to a variety of occurrences, such as the adoption of new accounting standards, the impairment of assets, rental location divestitures, dislocation in the equity and/or credit markets, consolidations or closings, restructurings, the refinancing of existing indebtedness or the buy-out of equipment leases; and currency risks and other risks of international operations. our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future for a number of reasons, including: announcements of developments related to our business; market perceptions of the likelihood of our involvement in merger and acquisition activity; variations in our revenues, gross margins, earnings or other financial results from investors expectations; departure of key personnel; purchases or sales of large blocks of our stock or transactions by insiders; fluctuations in results of our operations and general conditions in the economy, our market, and the markets served by our customers; investor perceptions of the equipment rental industry in general and our company in particular; and the operating and stock performance of comparable companies or related industries. in addition, prices in the stock market have been volatile over the past year. in many cases, the fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. as a result, the price of our common stock could fluctuate in the future without regard to our or our competitors operating performance. 11 table of contents our substantial debt exposes us to various risks. at december 31, 2009, our total indebtedness was approximately $3.1 billion, including $124 million of subordinated convertible debentures. our substantial indebtedness has the potential to affect us adversely in a number of ways. for example, it will or could: increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; require us to devote a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, reducing the funds available for other purposes or otherwise constraining our financial flexibility; restrict our ability to move operating cash flows to holdings (for example, the restricted payment basket capacity provided for in the indentures governing certain of urna outstanding debt securities was fully depleted by our 2008 activity, including our fourth quarter 2008 goodwill impairment charge. as of december 31, 2009, urna had no available basket capacity under the most restrictive of the restricted payment covenants in these indentures); affect our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly since substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests relating to existing indebtedness; and decrease our profitability or cash flow. further, if we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include: reducing or delaying capital expenditures; limiting our growth; seeking additional capital; selling assets; or restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness. even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may continue to be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates that are linked to changing market interest rates. as a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase our interest expense and our debt service obligations. at december 31, 2009, we had $530 million of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. this amount represents 17 percent of our total indebtedness, including our subordinated convertible debentures. see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk for additional information related to interest rate risk. despite our current indebtedness levels, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and take other actions that could diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness when due, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. despite our current indebtedness levels, we may be able to incur substantially more additional indebtedness in the future. we will not be fully restricted under the terms of the indentures or agreements governing our indebtedness from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not prohibited by the terms of the indentures or agreements governing our indebtedness, any of which actions could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on our indebtedness when due and further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. 12 table of contents if we are unable to satisfy the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, our lenders could elect to terminate the agreements and require us to repay the outstanding borrowings, or we could face other substantial costs. under the agreement governing our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility ( abl facility ), we are required, among other things, to satisfy certain financial tests relating to: (i) the fixed charge coverage ratio and (ii) the ratio of senior secured debt to adjusted ebitda. both of these covenants were suspended on june 9, 2009 because the availability, as defined in the agreement governing the abl facility, had exceeded 20 percent of the maximum revolver amount under the abl facility. since the june 9, 2009 suspension date and through december 31, 2009, availability under the abl facility has exceeded 10 percent of the maximum revolver amount under the abl facility and, as a result, these maintenance covenants remained inapplicable. subject to certain limited exceptions specified in the abl facility, these covenants will only apply in the future if availability under the abl facility falls below 10 percent of the maximum revolver amount under the abl facility. under our accounts receivable securitization facility, we are required, among other things, to maintain certain financial tests relating to: (i) the default ratio, (ii) the delinquency ratio, (iii) the dilution ratio and (iv) days sales outstanding. if we are unable to satisfy any of the relevant covenants, the lenders could elect to terminate the abl facility, accounts receivable securitization facility and/or other agreements governing our debt and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. in such event, unless we are able to refinance the indebtedness coming due and replace the abl facility, accounts receivable securitization facility and/or the other agreements governing our debt, we would likely not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs and would be forced to adopt an alternative strategy as described above. even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may not have sufficient liquidity to service our debt and fund our operations. in addition to financial covenants, we are subject to various other covenants in the abl facility, accounts receivable securitization facility, and in the other agreements governing our debt. in addition to the risks with respect to covenant non-compliance, compliance with covenants may restrict our ability to conduct our operations. for instance, these covenants limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make prepayments of certain indebtedness, pay dividends, repurchase common stock, make investments, create liens, make acquisitions, sell assets and engage in mergers and acquisitions. these covenants could adversely affect our operating results by significantly limiting our operating and financial flexibility. if we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business. if the cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility, is not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. however, we may not succeed in obtaining the requisite additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing as a result of prevailing interest rates or other factors, including the presence of covenants or other restrictions under the abl facility and/or other agreements governing our debt and the depth and duration of the current economic downturn. in the event we seek to obtain equity financing, our stockholders may experience dilution as a result of the issuance of additional equity securities. this dilution may be significant depending upon the amount of equity securities that we issue and the prices at which we issue such securities. if we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment, growth plans and refinancing existing indebtedness. we have a holding company structure and we will depend in part on distributions from our subsidiaries in order to pay amounts due on our indebtedness. certain provisions of law or contractual restrictions could limit distributions from our subsidiaries. we derive substantially all of our operating income from, and hold substantially all of our assets through, our subsidiaries. the effect of this structure is that we will depend in part on the earnings of our subsidiaries, and 13 table of contents the payment or other distribution to us of these earnings, in order to meet our obligations under our outstanding debt. provisions of law, such as those requiring that dividends be paid only from surplus, could limit the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments or other distributions to us. furthermore, these subsidiaries could in certain circumstances agree to contractual restrictions on their ability to make distributions. we are subject to certain ongoing class action and derivative lawsuits, which could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. multiple purported class action and derivative lawsuits have been filed against the company, as described in greater detail under item 3 legal proceedings. these include three complaints that were filed following our november 14, 2007 announcement that affiliates of cerberus capital management, l.p. ( cerberus ) had notified us that they were not prepared to proceed with the purchase of the company on the terms set forth in the merger agreement entered into with such persons. these complaints have been consolidated. the second consolidated amended complaint in this action alleges, among other things, that certain of the company filings with the sec, including proxy materials in connection with the special meeting of stockholders, and other public statements contained false and misleading statements and/or material omissions relating to the contemplated merger with affiliates of cerberus. each action asserts claims under sections 10(b) and 14(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and sec rules 10b-5 and 14a-9 thereunder and, in the case of the individual defendants, section 20(a) of the exchange act. the second consolidated amended complaint seeks unspecified compensatory damages, costs, expenses and fees. on august 24, 2009, the court granted defendants motion to dismiss the second consolidated amended complaint with prejudice and entered a judgment in favor of defendants. on september 22, 2009, lead plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal from the judgment dismissing the consolidated actions. we can give no assurances as to the outcome of these proceedings or any other stockholder lawsuit pending against the company and, if we do not prevail, we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts. further, regardless of the outcome, we may incur significant defense and indemnification costs, and the time and attention of our management may be diverted from normal business operations. if we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments, to the extent not covered, advanced or timely reimbursed by insurance, could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. as previously reported, in may 2009, we settled certain purported class action lawsuits that were filed following our august 2004 announcement of an sec inquiry into the company historical accounting practices, and the litigation was dismissed with prejudice, pursuant to a stipulation of settlement. we received a letter from counsel for an alleged stockholder, which demands, among other things, that we investigate the agreement of our board of directors to settle this action. while, upon the recommendation of a new committee of independent directors, our board determined that it would not be in the best interests of the company to take further action at this time, we cannot predict whether the relevant stockholder will pursue this matter further. we are exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business, and our insurance may not fully cover them. we are in the ordinary course exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business. these claims include those relating to (i) personal injury or property damage involving equipment rented or sold by us, (ii) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees and (iii) employment-related claims. further, as described elsewhere in this report, several stockholder derivative and class action lawsuits have been filed against us. currently, we carry a broad range of insurance for the protection of our assets and operations. however, such insurance may not fully cover these claims for a number of reasons, including: our insurance policies, reflecting a program structure that we believe reflects market conditions for companies our size, are often subject to significant deductibles or self-insured retentions: $2 million per occurrence for each general liability or automobile liability claim, and $1 million per occurrence for each workers compensation claim; 14 table of contents our director and officer liability insurance policy has no deductible for individual non-indemnifiable loss coverage, but is subject to a $2.5 million deductible for company reimbursement coverage and all director and officer coverage is subject to certain exclusions; we do not maintain stand-alone coverage for environmental liability (other than legally required coverage), since we believe the cost for such coverage is high relative to the benefit it provides; and certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits, might not be covered by our insurance. we establish and regularly evaluate our loss reserves to address business operations claims, or portions thereof, not covered by our insurance policies. to the extent that we are found liable for any significant claim or claims that exceed our established levels of reserves, that cause us to significantly increase such reserves or that are not otherwise covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, the purported class action and derivative lawsuits against us, and our indemnification costs associated with such matters, may not be fully reimbursable or covered by insurance. it is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or at all. we have made numerous acquisitions in the past, which entail certain risks, as do any growth initiatives, including additional acquisitions or consolidations, that we may make in the future. we have historically achieved a substantial portion of our growth through acquisitions. although we have not made many acquisitions in recent years, we are always open to considering potential acquisitions on a selective basis. from time-to-time we have also approached, or been approached, to explore consolidation opportunities with other public companies or large privately-held companies. whether historical or in the future, it is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. the making of acquisitions entails certain risks, including: unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations or that are not subject to indemnification or reimbursement by the seller; difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company within our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; loss of key employees of the acquired company; the failure to achieve anticipated synergies; and strains on management and other personnel time and resources to evaluate, negotiate and integrate acquisitions. we would expect to pay for any future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. to the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient in any instance, we would expect to need additional debt or equity financing, which involves its own risks, such as the dilutive effect on shares held by our stockholders if we financed acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities. we have also spent resources and efforts, apart from acquisitions, in attempting to enhance our rental business over the past few years. these efforts place strains on our management and other personnel time and resources, and require timely and continued investment in facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls. we may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support any of our growth initiatives, which could result in our expenses increasing disproportionately to our incremental revenues, causing our operating margins and profitability to be adversely affected. 15 table of contents our rights plan and charter provisions, as well as other factors, may affect the likelihood of a takeover or change of control of the company. we have in place a stockholders rights plan and certain charter provisions, such as the inability for stockholders to act by written consent, that may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or management of the company that are not approved by our board, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. as previously reported, on october 16, 2008, we amended our rights plan to reduce the beneficial ownership threshold required to trigger rights under the plan from a 25 percent ownership interest to a 15 percent ownership interest. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which under certain circumstances restricts the ability of a publicly held delaware corporation to engage in a business combination, such as a merger or sale of assets, with any stockholder that, together with affiliates, owns 15 percent or more of the corporation outstanding voting stock, which similarly could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of a change of control transaction. in addition, under the abl facility, a change of control (as defined in the credit agreement) constitutes an event of default, entitling our lenders to terminate the abl facility and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. a change of control (as defined in the applicable agreement) is also a termination event under our accounts receivable securitization facility and generally would require us to offer to repurchase our outstanding senior and senior subordinated notes. as a result, the provisions of the agreements governing our debt also may affect the likelihood of a takeover or other change of control. turnover of members of our management and our ability to attract and retain key personnel may affect our ability to efficiently manage our business and execute our strategy. our success is dependent, in part, on the experience and skills of our management team, and competition in our industry and the business world generally for top management talent is significant. although we believe we generally have competitive pay packages, we can provide no assurance that our efforts to attract and retain senior management staff will be successful. moreover, given the volatility in our stock price, it may be more difficult and expensive to recruit and retain employees, particularly senior management, through grants of stock or stock options. this in turn could place greater pressure on the company to increase the cash component of its compensation packages, which may adversely affect our operating results. if we are unable to fill and keep filled all of our senior management positions, or if we lose the services of any key member of our senior management team and are unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely fashion, we may be challenged to effectively manage our business and execute our strategy. our operational and cost reduction strategies may not generate the improvements and efficiencies we expect. we are pursuing a strategy of analyzing and optimizing our field operations in order to improve sales force effectiveness, and to focus our sales force efforts on increasing revenues from our national account customers and from other large customers. we are also continuing to pursue an earlier-started overall cost reduction program, which achieved substantial cost savings in 2009. the extent to which these strategies will achieve our desired efficiencies and goals in 2010 and beyond is uncertain, as their success depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. even if we carry out these strategies in the manner we currently expect, we may not achieve the efficiencies or savings we anticipate, or on the timetable we anticipate, and there may be unforeseen productivity, revenue or other consequences resulting from our strategies that will adversely affect us. therefore, there can be no guarantee that our strategies will prove effective in achieving desired profitability, margins or returns to stockholders. we are dependent on our relationships with key suppliers to obtain equipment and other supplies for our business on acceptable terms. we have achieved significant cost savings through our centralization of equipment and, more recently, non-equipment purchases. however, as a result, we depend on and are exposed to the credit risk of a group of 16 table of contents key suppliers. while we make every effort to evaluate our counterparties prior to entering into long-term and other significant procurement contracts, we cannot predict the impact on our suppliers of the current economic environment and other developments in their respective businesses. insolvency, financial difficulties or other factors may result in our suppliers not being able to fulfill the terms of their agreements with us. further, such factors may render suppliers unwilling to extend contracts that provide favorable terms to the company or may force them to seek to renegotiate existing contracts with us. although we believe we have alternative sources of supply for the equipment and other supplies used in our business, termination of our relationship with any of our key suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the unlikely event that we were unable to obtain adequate equipment or supplies from other sources in a timely manner or at all. our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could lead to a decrease in our market share or in the prices that we can charge. the equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. our competitors include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations, regional competitors which operate in one or more states, public companies or divisions of public companies, and equipment vendors and dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. we may in the future encounter increased competition from our existing competitors or from new companies. competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by, among other things, further decreasing our rental volumes, further depressing the prices that we can charge or increasing our costs to retain employees. disruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations. our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. any disruptions in these systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. in addition, because our systems sometimes contain information about individuals and businesses, our failure to appropriately maintain the security of the data we hold, whether as a result of our own error or the malfeasance or errors of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenues, increased costs and other material adverse effects on our results of operations. we are subject to numerous environmental and safety regulations. if we are required to incur compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. these laws regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous waste and materials, and air quality. under these laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating any contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment, regardless of fault and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. our operations generally do not raise significant environmental risks, but we use hazardous materials to clean and maintain equipment, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from above-ground storage tanks located at certain of our locations. based on conditions currently known to us, we do not believe that any pending or likely remediation and/or compliance effort will have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot be certain, however, as to the potential financial impact on our business if new adverse environmental conditions are discovered or environmental and safety requirements become more stringent. if we are required to incur environmental 17 table of contents compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected, depending on the magnitude of such costs. we have operations throughout the united states, which exposes us to multiple state and local regulations, in addition to federal law and requirements as a government contractor. changes in applicable law, regulations or requirements, or our material failure to comply with any of them, can increase our costs and have other negative impacts on our business. our over 480 branch locations in the united states are located in 48 different states, which exposes us to a host of different state and local regulations, in addition to federal law and regulatory and contractual requirements we face as a government contractor. these laws and requirements address multiple aspects of our operations, such as worker safety, consumer rights, privacy, employee benefits and more, and can often have different requirements in different jurisdictions. changes in these requirements, or any material failure by our branches to comply with them, can increase our costs, affect our reputation, limit our business, drain management time and attention and generally otherwise impact our operations in adverse ways. labor disputes could disrupt our ability to serve our customers and/or lead to higher labor costs. we currently have approximately 600 employees who are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 7,400 employees who are not represented by unions. various unions periodically seek to organize certain of our nonunion employees. union organizing efforts or collective bargaining negotiations could potentially lead to work stoppages and/or slowdowns or strikes by certain of our employees, which could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. further, settlement of actual or threatened labor disputes or an increase in the number of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements can have unknown effects on our labor costs, productivity and flexibility. in addition, proposed federal legislation would make it easier for unions to organize by requiring employers to recognize unions based on card check authorization rather than by secret ballot election, and would impose arbitration to settle first-time collective bargaining agreements if the parties have not reached agreement within 120 days of recognition. the enactment of such legislation could significantly increase labor costs in ways that are difficult to predict. fluctuations in fuel costs or reduced supplies of fuel could harm our business. we believe that one of our competitive advantages is the mobility of our fleet. accordingly, we could be adversely affected by limitations on fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices that result in higher costs to us of transporting equipment from one branch to another branch. although we have used, and may continue to use, futures contracts to hedge against rising and/or declining fuel prices, a significant or protracted price fluctuation or disruption of fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. if our maintenance and equipment replacement costs increase as our rental fleet ages and we are unable to pass along such costs, our earnings will decrease. as we age our fleet of rental equipment, which we expect to do in 2010, the cost of maintaining such equipment, if not replaced within a certain period of time, may increase. any increases in such costs will cause our earnings to decrease. in addition, the cost of the new equipment we use in our rental fleet may increase and therefore we may spend more for replacement equipment. any such cost increases are due primarily to increased material costs, including increases in the cost of steel, which is a primary material used in most of the equipment we use, and increases in the cost of fuel, which is used in the manufacturing process and in delivering equipment to us. any such cost increases could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 table of contents our rental fleet is subject to residual value risk upon disposition, and may not sell at the prices or in the quantities we expect. the market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. the market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including: the market price for new equipment of a like kind; wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age and the performance of preventive maintenance; the time of year that it is sold; the supply of used equipment on the market; the existence and capacities of different sales outlets; the age of the equipment at the time it is sold; worldwide and domestic demand for used equipment; and general economic conditions. we include in income from operations the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of an item of equipment sold. changes in our assumptions regarding depreciation could change our depreciation expense, as well as the gain or loss realized upon disposal of equipment. sales of our used rental equipment at prices that fall significantly below our projections and/or in lesser quantities than we anticipate will have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we have operations outside the united states. as a result, we may incur losses from currency conversions and have higher costs than we otherwise would have due to the need to comply with foreign laws. our operations in canada and mexico are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. these include (i) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates, (ii) the need to comply with foreign laws and regulations, as well as u.s. laws and regulations applicable to our operations in foreign jurisdictions, and (iii) the possibility of political or economic instability in foreign countries. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt, (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily associated with our canadian operations and (iii) equity price risk associated with our convertible debt. interest rate risk . as of december 31, 2009, we had an aggregate of $530 of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of $337 of borrowings under the abl facility and $193 of borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization facility. the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt on december 31, 2009 were (i) 3.3 percent for the abl facility and (ii) 1.6 percent for the accounts receivable securitization facility. as of december 31, 2009, based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $3 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. 45 table of contents the amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility may fluctuate significantly. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2009, we had an aggregate of $2.5 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates, including our subordinated convertible debentures. a one percentage point change in market interest rates as of december 31, 2009 would change the fair value of our fixed rate indebtedness by approximately four percent. for additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see notes 2 (see fair value of financial instruments ) and 10 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2009 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would not have a material impact on our earnings. we had no outstanding foreign exchange contracts as of december 31, 2009. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. equity price risk . in connection with the november 2009 issuance of $173 aggregate principal amount of 4 percent convertible senior notes, holdings entered into convertible note hedge transactions with option counterparties. the convertible note hedge transactions cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, 15.5 million shares of our common stock. the convertible note hedge transactions are intended to reduce, subject to a limit, the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the 4 percent convertible notes. the effect of the convertible note hedge transactions is to increase the effective conversion price to approximately $15.56 per share, equal to an approximately 75 percent premium over the $8.89 closing price of our common stock on november 10, 2009. however, in the event the market value of our common stock exceeds $15.56 per share, the settlement amount received from such transactions will only partially offset the potential dilution. for example, if, at the time of exercise of the conversion right, the price of our common stock was $17.00 or $20.00 per share, on a net basis, we would issue 1.3 million or 3.4 million shares, respectively. 46 table of contentsrisk factors our business, results of operations and financial condition are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. in connection with any investment decision with respect to our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the sec. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. should any of these risks materialize, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted, which in turn could affect the trading value of our securities. 10 table of contents the recent economic downturn, and resulting decreases in north american construction and industrial activities, adversely affected our revenues and operating results by decreasing the demand for our equipment and the prices that we could charge. a slowdown in the economic recovery or a decrease in general economic activity could have further adverse effects on our revenues and operating results. our rental equipment is used primarily in the non-residential construction industry, which is cyclical in nature. trench safety, power and hvac equipment is principally used in connection with construction and industrial activities. over the past several years, our industry has experienced a decline in construction and industrial activity, and we experienced weakness in our end markets. this weakness in our end markets has led to a decrease in the demand for our equipment and the prices that we can charge and could lead to further decreases. such decreases adversely affect our operating results by causing our revenues to decline and, because certain of our costs are fixed, our operating margins to be reduced. while many areas of the global economy are improving, a slowdown in the economic recovery or worsening of economic conditions, in particular with respect to north american construction and industrial activities, could cause further weakness in our end markets and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. the following factors, among others, may cause weakness in our end markets, either temporarily or long-term: a decrease in expected levels of infrastructure spending, including lower than expected government funding for economic stimulus projects; a lack of availability of credit; an increase in the cost of construction materials; an increase in interest rates; adverse weather conditions, which may temporarily affect a particular region; or terrorism or hostilities involving the united states or canada. if we are unable to collect on contracts with customers, our operating results would be adversely affected. one of the reasons some of our customers find it more attractive to rent equipment than own that equipment is the need to deploy their capital elsewhere. this has been particularly true in industries with high growth rates such as the construction industry. however, some of our customers may have liquidity issues and ultimately may not be able to fulfill the terms of their rental agreements with us. if we are unable to manage credit risk issues adequately, or if a large number of customers should have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses could increase above historical levels and our operating results would be adversely affected. further, delinquencies and credit losses generally can be expected to increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. our operating results may fluctuate, which could affect the trading value of our securities. we expect that our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter or over the longer term due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading value of our securities. these factors, in addition to general economic conditions and the factors discussed above under cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements , include, but are not limited to: seasonal rental patterns of our customers, with rental activity tending to be lower in the winter; changes in the size of our rental fleet and/or in the rate at which we sell our used equipment; changes in non-residential construction spending or government funding for infrastructure and other construction projects; changes in demand for, or utilization of, our equipment or in the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; 11 table of contents commodity price pressures and the resultant increase in the cost of fuel and steel to our equipment suppliers, which can result in increased equipment costs for us; other cost fluctuations, such as costs for employee-related compensation and healthcare benefits; labor shortages, work stoppages or other labor difficulties; potential enactment of new legislation affecting our operations or labor relations; completion of acquisitions, divestitures or recapitalizations; increases in interest rates and related increases in our interest expense and our debt service obligations; the possible need, from time to time, to record goodwill impairment charges or other write-offs or charges due to a variety of occurrences, such as the adoption of new accounting standards, the impairment of assets, rental location divestitures, dislocation in the equity and/or credit markets, consolidations or closings, restructurings, the refinancing of existing indebtedness or the buy-out of equipment leases; and currency risks and other risks of international operations. our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future for a number of reasons, including: announcements of developments related to our business; market perceptions of the likelihood of our involvement in merger and acquisition activity; variations in our revenues, gross margins, earnings or other financial results from investors expectations; departure of key personnel; purchases or sales of large blocks of our stock by institutional investors or transactions by insiders; fluctuations in the results of our operations and general conditions in the economy, our market, and the markets served by our customers; investor perceptions of the equipment rental industry in general and our company in particular; and the operating and stock performance of comparable companies or related industries. in addition, prices in the stock market have been volatile over the past few years. in many cases, the fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. as a result, the price of our common stock could fluctuate in the future without regard to our or our competitors operating performance. our substantial debt exposes us to various risks. at december 31, 2010, our total indebtedness was approximately $2.9 billion, including $124 million of subordinated convertible debentures. our substantial indebtedness has the potential to affect us adversely in a number of ways. for example, it will or could: increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; require us to devote a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, reducing the funds available for other purposes or otherwise constraining our financial flexibility; restrict our ability to move operating cash flows to holdings. as of december 31, 2010, the restricted payment basket capacity provided for in the indentures governing certain of urna outstanding debt securities was fully depleted by losses sustained in prior years; 12 table of contents affect our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly since substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests relating to existing indebtedness; and decrease our profitability or cash flow. further, if we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include: reducing or delaying capital expenditures; limiting our growth; seeking additional capital; selling assets; or restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness. even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may continue to be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates that are linked to changing market interest rates. as a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase our interest expense and our debt service obligations. at december 31, 2010, we had $904 million of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. this amount represents 31 percent of our total indebtedness, including our subordinated convertible debentures. see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for additional information related to interest rate risk. despite our current indebtedness levels, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and take other actions that could diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness when due, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. despite our current indebtedness levels, we may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness in the future. we are not fully restricted under the terms of the indentures or agreements governing our indebtedness from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not prohibited by the terms of the indentures or agreements governing our indebtedness, any of which actions could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on our indebtedness when due and further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. if we are unable to satisfy the financial and other covenants in certain of our debt agreements, our lenders could elect to terminate the agreements and require us to repay the outstanding borrowings, or we could face other substantial costs. under the agreement governing our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility ( abl facility ), we are required, among other things, to satisfy certain financial tests relating to: (i) the fixed charge coverage ratio and (ii) the ratio of senior secured debt to adjusted ebitda. both of these covenants were suspended on june 9, 2009 because the availability, as defined in the agreement governing the abl facility, had exceeded 20 percent of the maximum revolver amount under the abl facility. subject to certain limited exceptions specified in the abl facility, these covenants will only apply in the future if availability under the abl facility falls below 10 percent of the maximum revolver amount under the abl facility. since the june 9, 2009 suspension date and through december 31, 2010, availability under the abl facility has exceeded 10 percent of the maximum revolver amount under the abl facility and, as a result, these maintenance covenants remained inapplicable. under our accounts receivable securitization facility, we are required, among other things, to maintain certain financial tests relating to: (i) the default ratio, (ii) the delinquency ratio, (iii) the dilution ratio and (iv) days sales outstanding. if we are unable to satisfy these or any other of the relevant covenants, the lenders could elect to terminate the abl facility, accounts receivable securitization facility and/or other agreements governing our debt and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. in such event, unless we are able to refinance 13 table of contents the indebtedness coming due and replace the abl facility, accounts receivable securitization facility and/or the other agreements governing our debt, we would likely not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs and would be forced to adopt an alternative strategy as described above. even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may not have sufficient liquidity to service our debt and fund our operations. restrictive covenants in certain of the agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial and operational flexibility. in addition to the risks with respect to covenant non-compliance, compliance with covenants may restrict our ability to conduct our operations. these covenants could adversely affect our operating results by significantly limiting our operating and financial flexibility. in addition to financial covenants, various other covenants in the abl facility, accounts receivable securitization facility, and in the other agreements governing our debt, among our things, restrict our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; make prepayments of certain indebtedness; pay dividends; repurchase common stock; make investments; create liens; and make acquisitions, sell assets and engage in mergers and acquisitions. we rely on available borrowings under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility for cash to operate our business, which subjects us to risk, some of which is beyond our control. in addition to cash we generate from our business, our principal existing sources of cash are borrowings available under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility. if our access to such financing was unavailable or reduced, or if such financing were to become significantly more expensive for any reason, we may not be able to fund daily operations, which may cause material harm to our business or could affect our ability to operate our business as a going concern. in addition, if any of our lenders experience difficulties that render them unable to fund future draws on the facilities, we may not be able to access all or a portion of these funds, which could have similar adverse consequences. if we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business. if the cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility, is not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. however, we may not succeed in obtaining the requisite additional financing or such financing may include terms that are not satisfactory to us. we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing as a result of prevailing interest rates or other factors, including the presence of covenants or other restrictions under the abl facility and/or other agreements governing our debt. in the event we seek to obtain equity financing, our stockholders may experience dilution as a result of the issuance of additional equity securities. this dilution may be significant depending upon the amount of equity securities that we issue and the prices at which we issue such securities. if we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment, growth plans and refinancing existing indebtedness. 14 table of contents if we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur impairment charges, which would negatively impact our operating results. at december 31, 2010, we had $198 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. we assess potential impairment of our goodwill at least annually. impairment may result from significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired asset, negative industry or economic trends and/or significant underperformance relative to historic or projected operating results. we have a holding company structure and we will depend in part on distributions from our subsidiaries in order to pay amounts due on our indebtedness. certain provisions of law or contractual restrictions could limit distributions from our subsidiaries. we derive substantially all of our operating income from, and hold substantially all of our assets through, our subsidiaries. the effect of this structure is that we will depend in part on the earnings of our subsidiaries, and the payment or other distribution to us of these earnings, in order to meet our obligations under our outstanding debt. provisions of law, such as those requiring that dividends be paid only from surplus, could limit the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments or other distributions to us. furthermore, these subsidiaries could in certain circumstances agree to contractual restrictions on their ability to make distributions. we are subject to certain ongoing class action and derivative lawsuits, which could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. multiple purported class action and derivative lawsuits have been filed against the company, as described in greater detail under item 3 legal proceedings. these include three complaints that were filed following our november 14, 2007 announcement that affiliates of cerberus capital management, l.p. ( cerberus ) had notified us that they were not prepared to proceed with the purchase of the company on the terms set forth in the merger agreement entered into with such persons. these complaints have been consolidated. plaintiffs second consolidated amended complaint alleges, among other things, that certain of the company filings with the sec, including proxy materials in connection with the special meeting of stockholders, and other public statements contained false and misleading statements and/or material omissions relating to the contemplated merger with affiliates of cerberus. the second consolidated amended complaint asserts claims under section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), and sec rule 10b-5 thereunder and, in the case of the individual defendants, section 20(a) of the exchange act. the second consolidated amended complaint seeks unspecified compensatory damages, costs, expenses and fees. on august 24, 2009, the united states district court for the district of connecticut granted defendants motion to dismiss the second consolidated amended complaint with prejudice and entered a judgment in favor of defendants. on august 30, 2010, the united states court of appeals for the second circuit affirmed the judgment of dismissal entered by the district court. on september 13, 2010, plaintiffs filed a petition for rehearing en banc or panel rehearing. we can give no assurances as to the outcome of these proceedings or any other stockholder lawsuit pending against the company and, if we do not prevail, we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts. further, regardless of the outcome, we may incur significant defense and indemnification costs, and the time and attention of our management may be diverted from normal business operations. if we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments, to the extent not covered, advanced or timely reimbursed by insurance, could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. we are exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business, and our insurance may not fully cover them. we are in the ordinary course exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business. these claims include those relating to (i) personal injury or property damage involving equipment rented or sold by us, (ii) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees and (iii) employment-related claims. further, as 15 table of contents described elsewhere in this report, several stockholder derivative and class action lawsuits have been filed against us. currently, we carry a broad range of insurance for the protection of our assets and operations. however, such insurance may not fully cover these claims for a number of reasons, including: our insurance policies, reflecting a program structure that we believe reflects market conditions for companies our size, are often subject to significant deductibles or self-insured retentions: $2 million per occurrence for each general liability or automobile liability claim, and $1 million per occurrence for each workers compensation claim; our director and officer liability insurance policy has no deductible for individual non-indemnifiable loss coverage, but is subject to a $2.5 million deductible for company reimbursement coverage and all director and officer coverage is subject to certain exclusions; we do not maintain stand-alone coverage for environmental liability (other than legally required coverage), since we believe the cost for such coverage is high relative to the benefit it provides; and certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits, might not be covered by our insurance. we establish and regularly evaluate our loss reserves to address business operations claims, or portions thereof, not covered by our insurance policies. to the extent that we are found liable for any significant claim or claims that exceed our established levels of reserves, or that are not otherwise covered by insurance, we could have to significantly increase our reserves, and our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. during the fourth quarter of 2010, we recognized a charge of $24 million related to our provision for self-insurance reserves. the charge in particular reflects recent adverse experience in our portfolio of automobile and general liability claims, as well as worker compensation claims. in addition, the purported class action and derivative lawsuits against us, and our indemnification costs associated with such matters, may not be fully reimbursable or covered by insurance. it is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or at all. we have made acquisitions in the past, which entail certain risks, as do any growth initiatives, including additional acquisitions or consolidations, that we may make in the future. we have historically achieved a portion of our growth through acquisitions. although we have not made many acquisitions in recent years, we will consider potential acquisitions on a selective basis. from time-to-time we have also approached, or have been approached, to explore consolidation opportunities with other public companies or large privately-held companies. whether historical or in the future, it is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. acquisitions entail certain risks, including: unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations or that are not subject to indemnification or reimbursement by the seller; difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company within our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; loss of key employees of the acquired company; the failure to achieve anticipated synergies; and strains on management and other personnel time and resources to evaluate, negotiate and integrate acquisitions. 16 table of contents we would expect to pay for any future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. to the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient in any instance, we would expect to need additional debt or equity financing, which involves its own risks, such as the dilutive effect on shares held by our stockholders if we financed acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities. we have also spent resources and efforts, apart from acquisitions, in attempting to enhance our rental business over the past few years. these efforts place strains on our management and other personnel time and resources, and require timely and continued investment in facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls. we may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support any of our growth initiatives, which could result in our expenses increasing disproportionately to our incremental revenues, causing our operating margins and profitability to be adversely affected. our rights plan and charter provisions, as well as other factors, may affect the likelihood of a takeover or change of control of the company. we have in place a stockholders rights plan and certain charter provisions, such as the inability for stockholders to act by written consent, that may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or management of the company that are not approved by our board, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. as previously reported, on october 16, 2008, we amended our rights plan to reduce the beneficial ownership threshold required to trigger rights under the plan from a 25 percent ownership interest to a 15 percent ownership interest. we are also subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law which, under certain circumstances, restricts the ability of a publicly held delaware corporation to engage in a business combination, such as a merger or sale of assets, with any stockholder that, together with affiliates, owns 15 percent or more of the corporation outstanding voting stock, which similarly could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of a change of control transaction. in addition, under the abl facility, a change of control (as defined in the credit agreement) constitutes an event of default, entitling our lenders to terminate the abl facility and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. a change of control (as defined in the applicable agreement) is also a termination event under our accounts receivable securitization facility and generally would require us to offer to repurchase our outstanding senior and senior subordinated notes. as a result, the provisions of the agreements governing our debt also may affect the likelihood of a takeover or other change of control. turnover of members of our management and our ability to attract and retain key personnel may affect our ability to efficiently manage our business and execute our strategy. our success is dependent, in part, on the experience and skills of our management team, and competition in our industry and the business world for top management talent is generally significant. although we believe we generally have competitive pay packages, we can provide no assurance that our efforts to attract and retain senior management staff will be successful. moreover, given the volatility in our stock price, it may be more difficult and expensive to recruit and retain employees, particularly senior management, through grants of stock or stock options. this in turn could place greater pressure on the company to increase the cash component of its compensation packages, which may adversely affect our operating results. if we are unable to fill and keep filled all of our senior management positions, or if we lose the services of any key member of our senior management team and are unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely fashion, we may be challenged to effectively manage our business and execute our strategy. our operational and cost reduction strategies may not generate the improvements and efficiencies we expect. we have been pursuing a strategy of optimizing our field operations in order to improve sales force effectiveness, and to focus our sales force efforts on increasing revenues from our national account and other large customers. we are also continuing to pursue our overall cost reduction program, which resulted in substantial cost savings in 2009 and further savings in 2010. the extent to which these strategies will achieve our 17 table of contents desired efficiencies and goals in 2011 and beyond is uncertain, as their success depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. even if we carry out these strategies in the manner we currently expect, we may not achieve the efficiencies or savings we anticipate, or on the timetable we anticipate, and there may be unforeseen productivity, revenue or other consequences resulting from our strategies that may adversely affect us. therefore, there can be no guarantee that our strategies will prove effective in achieving desired profitability, margins or returns to stockholders. we are dependent on our relationships with key suppliers to obtain equipment and other supplies for our business on acceptable terms. we have achieved significant cost savings through our centralization of equipment and non-equipment purchases. however, as a result, we depend on and are exposed to the credit risk of a group of key suppliers. while we make every effort to evaluate our counterparties prior to entering into long-term and other significant procurement contracts, we cannot predict the impact on our suppliers of the current economic environment and other developments in their respective businesses. insolvency, financial difficulties or other factors may result in our suppliers not being able to fulfill the terms of their agreements with us. further, such factors may render suppliers unwilling to extend contracts that provide favorable terms to the company or may force them to seek to renegotiate existing contracts with us. although we believe we have alternative sources of supply for the equipment and other supplies used in our business, termination of our relationship with any of our key suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the unlikely event that we were unable to obtain adequate equipment or supplies from other sources in a timely manner or at all. as our rental fleet ages, our operating costs may increase, we may be unable to pass along such costs, and our earnings may decrease. the costs of new equipment we use in our fleet may increase, requiring us to spend more for replacement equipment or preventing us from procuring equipment on a timely basis. if our rental equipment ages, the costs of maintaining such equipment, if not replaced within a certain period of time, will likely increase. the costs of maintenance may materially increase in the future and could lead to material adverse effects on our results of operations. the cost of new equipment for use in our rental fleet could also increase due to increased material costs to our suppliers or other factors beyond our control. such increases could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. furthermore, changes in customer demand could cause certain of our existing equipment to become obsolete and require us to purchase new equipment at increased costs. our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could lead to a decrease in our market share or in the prices that we can charge. the equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. our competitors include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations, regional competitors that operate in one or more states, public companies or divisions of public companies, and equipment vendors and dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. we may in the future encounter increased competition from our existing competitors or from new companies. competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by, among other things, decreasing our rental volumes, depressing the prices that we can charge or increasing our costs to retain employees. disruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations. our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. any disruptions in these systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting 18 table of contents our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. in addition, because our systems sometimes contain information about individuals and businesses, our failure to appropriately maintain the security of the data we hold, whether as a result of our own error or the malfeasance or errors of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenues, increased costs and other material adverse effects on our results of operations. we are subject to numerous environmental and safety regulations. if we are required to incur compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. these laws regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous waste and materials, and air quality. under these laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating any contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we send hazardous waste for disposal or treatment, regardless of fault and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. our operations generally do not raise significant environmental risks, but we use hazardous materials to clean and maintain equipment, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from above-ground storage tanks located at certain of our locations. based on conditions currently known to us, we do not believe that any pending or likely remediation and/or compliance effort will have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot be certain, however, as to the potential financial impact on our business if new adverse environmental conditions are discovered or environmental and safety requirements become more stringent. if we are required to incur environmental compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected, depending on the magnitude of such costs. we have operations throughout the united states, which exposes us to multiple state and local regulations, in addition to federal law and requirements as a government contractor. changes in applicable law, regulations or requirements, or our material failure to comply with any of them, can increase our costs and have other negative impacts on our business. our 446 branch locations in the united states are located in 48 states, which exposes us to a host of different state and local regulations, in addition to federal law and regulatory and contractual requirements we face as a government contractor. these laws and requirements address multiple aspects of our operations, such as worker safety, consumer rights, privacy, employee benefits and more, and can often have different requirements in different jurisdictions. changes in these requirements, or any material failure by our branches to comply with them, can increase our costs, affect our reputation, limit our business, drain management time and attention and generally otherwise impact our operations in adverse ways. labor disputes could disrupt our ability to serve our customers and/or lead to higher labor costs. we currently have approximately 600 employees who are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 6,700 employees who are not represented by unions. various unions occasionally seek to organize certain of our nonunion employees. union organizing efforts or collective bargaining negotiations could potentially lead to work stoppages and/or slowdowns or strikes by certain of our employees, which could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. further, settlement of actual or threatened labor disputes or an increase in the number of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements can have unknown effects on our labor costs, productivity and flexibility. fluctuations in fuel costs or reduced supplies of fuel could harm our business. we believe that one of our competitive advantages is the mobility of our fleet. accordingly, we could be adversely affected by limitations on fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices that result in higher costs 19 table of contents to us for transporting equipment from one branch to another branch. although we have used, and may continue to use, futures contracts to hedge against rising and/or declining fuel prices, a significant or protracted price fluctuation or disruption of fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our rental fleet is subject to residual value risk upon disposition, and may not sell at the prices or in the quantities we expect. the market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. the market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including: the market price for new equipment of a like kind; wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age and the performance of preventive maintenance; the time of year that it is sold; the supply of used equipment on the market; the existence and capacities of different sales outlets; the age of the equipment at the time it is sold; worldwide and domestic demand for used equipment; and general economic conditions. we include in income from operations the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of an item of equipment sold. changes in our assumptions regarding depreciation could change our depreciation expense, as well as the gain or loss realized upon disposal of equipment. sales of our used rental equipment at prices that fall significantly below our projections and/or in lesser quantities than we anticipate will have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we have operations outside the united states. as a result, we may incur losses from currency conversions and have higher costs than we otherwise would have due to the need to comply with foreign laws. our operations in canada are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. these include (i) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates and (ii) the need to comply with foreign laws and regulations, as well as u.s. laws and regulations applicable to our operations in foreign jurisdictions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt, (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily associated with our canadian operations and (iii) equity price risk associated with our convertible debt. interest rate risk . as of december 31, 2010, we had an aggregate of $904 of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of $683 of borrowings under the abl facility and $221 of borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization facility. the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt on december 31, 2010 were (i) 3.4 percent for the abl facility and (ii) 1.6 percent for the accounts receivable securitization facility. as of december 31, 2010, based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $5 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility may fluctuate significantly. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. 46 table of contents at december 31, 2010, we had an aggregate of $2.0 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates, including our subordinated convertible debentures. a one percentage point decrease in market interest rates as of december 31, 2010 would increase the fair value of our fixed rate indebtedness by approximately six percent. for additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see notes 11 (see fair value of financial instruments ) and 12 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2010 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would cause our annual after-tax earnings to change by approximately $4. as discussed in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, during the year ended december 31, 2010, we recognized foreign currency losses of $13 associated with the revaluation of certain canadian dollar denominated intercompany loans, however these losses were offset by gains of $13 recognized on forward contracts to purchase canadian dollars, and the aggregate foreign currency impact of the intercompany loans and forward contracts did not have a material impact on our earnings. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. equity price risk . in connection with the november 2009 issuance of $173 aggregate principal amount of 4 percent convertible senior notes, holdings entered into convertible note hedge transactions with option counterparties. the convertible note hedge transactions cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, 15.5 million shares of our common stock. the convertible note hedge transactions are intended to reduce, subject to a limit, the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the 4 percent convertible notes. based on the price of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2010, holders of the 4 percent convertible notes may convert the notes during the first quarter of 2011 at the initial conversion price of approximately $11.11 per share of common stock. as of january 28, 2011, none of the 4 percent convertible notes were converted. the effect of the convertible note hedge transactions is to increase the effective conversion price to approximately $15.56 per share, equal to an approximately 75 percent premium over the $8.89 closing price of our common stock at issuance. however, in the event the market value of our common stock exceeds $15.56 per share, the settlement amount received from such transactions will only partially offset the potential dilution. for example, if, at the time of exercise of the conversion right, the price of our common stock was $25.00 or $30.00 per share, on a net basis, we would issue 5.9 million or 7.5 million shares, respectively. 47 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk primarily consists of (i) interest rate risk associated with our variable and fixed rate debt, (ii) foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily associated with our canadian operations and (iii) equity price risk associated with our convertible debt. interest rate risk . as of december 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of $ 1,065 of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates, comprised of $ 810 of borrowings under the abl facility and $ 255 of borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization facility. the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt on december 31, 2011 were (i) 2.4 percent for the abl facility and (ii) 0.9 percent for the accounts receivable securitization facility. as of december 31, 2011, based upon the amount of our variable rate debt outstanding, our annual after-tax earnings would decrease by approximately $ 7 for each one percentage point increase in the interest rates applicable to our variable rate debt. the amount of variable rate indebtedness outstanding under the abl facility and accounts receivable securitization facility may fluctuate significantly. for additional information concerning the terms of our variable rate debt, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of $ 2.0 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at fixed rates, including our subordinated convertible debentures. a one percentage point decrease in market interest rates as of december 31, 2011 would increase the fair value of our fixed rate indebtedness by approximately five percent. for additional information concerning the fair value and terms of our fixed rate debt, see notes 11 (see fair value of financial instruments ) and 12 to our consolidated financial statements. currency exchange risk . the functional currency for our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. as a result, our future earnings could be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the u.s. and canadian dollars. based upon the level of our canadian operations during 2011 relative to the company as a whole, a 10 percent change in this exchange rate would cause our annual after-tax earnings to change by approximately $6. as discussed in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, during the year ended december 31, 2011, we recognized foreign currency losses of $ 4 associated with the revaluation of certain canadian dollar denominated intercompany loans, however these losses were offset by gains of $ 4 recognized on forward contracts to purchase canadian dollars, and the aggregate foreign currency impact of the intercompany loans and forward contracts did not have a material impact on our earnings. we do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes. equity price risk . in connection with the november 2009 4 percent convertible notes offering, holdings entered into convertible note hedge transactions with option counterparties. the convertible note hedge transactions cost $26, and decreased additional paid-in capital by $17, net of taxes, in our accompanying consolidated statements of stockholders' equity (deficit). the convertible note hedge transactions cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, 15.1 million shares of our common stock. the convertible note hedge transactions are intended to reduce, subject to a limit, the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the 4 percent convertible notes. the effect of the convertible note hedge transactions is to increase the effective conversion price to $15.56 per share, equal to an approximately 75 percent premium over the $8.89 closing price of our common stock at issuance. the effective conversion price is subject to change in certain circumstances, such as if the 4 percent convertible notes are converted prior to may 15, 2015. in the event the market value of our common stock exceeds the effective conversion price per share, the settlement amount received from such transactions will only partially offset the potential dilution. for example, if, at the time of exercise of the conversion right, the price of our common stock was $ 30.00 or $ 35.00 per share, assuming an effective conversion price of $15.56 per share, on a net basis, we would issue 7.3 million or 8.4 million shares, respectively. based on the price of our common stock during 2011, holders of the 4 percent convertible notes had the right to convert the notes during each of the quarters in 2011 at a conversion price of $11.11 per share of common stock. during the year ended december 31, 2011, $ 5 of the 4 percent convertible notes were converted at an effective conversion price of $ 13.70 . upon conversion of these notes, we received $ 1 from the hedge counterparties, and recognized a $ 1 increase in additional paid-in capital. additionally, upon conversion of these notes, additional paid-in capital was reduced by $ 7 , reflecting the excess of the cash transferred upon settlement over the $ 5 principal amount of the converted notes. based on the price of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2011, holders of the 4 percent convertible notes have the right to convert the notes during the first quarter of 2012 at a conversion price of $11.11 per share of common stock. between january 1, 2012 (the beginning of the first quarter) and january 23, 2012, none of the 4 percent convertible senior notes were converted. 37 table of contents if the total $168 outstanding principal amount of the 4 percent convertible notes was converted, the total cost to settle the notes would be $ 446 , assuming a conversion price of $29.55 (the closing price of our common stock on december 31, 2011 ) per share of common stock. the $168 principal amount would be settled in cash, and the remaining $ 278 could be settled in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination thereof, at our discretion. based on the december 31, 2011 closing stock price, approximately 9 million shares of stock would be issued if we settled the entire $ 278 of conversion value in excess of the principal amount in stock. the total cost to settle would change approximately $ 15 for each $ 1 (actual dollars) change in our stock price. if the full principal amount was converted at our december 31, 2011 closing stock price, we estimate that we would receive approximately $ 40 in either cash or stock from the hedge counterparties, after which the effective conversion price would be approximately $13.78 . additionally, $ 22 principal amount of our 1 7 / 8 percent convertible notes were outstanding at december 31, 2011 . if the total $ 22 outstanding principal amount of the 1 7 / 8 percent convertible notes was converted, the total cost to settle the notes would be $ 30 , assuming a conversion price of $29.55 (the closing price of our common stock on december 31, 2011) per share of common stock. the total cost to settle would change approximately $ 1 for each $ 1 (actual dollars) change in our stock price. the 1 7 / 8 percent convertible notes were not convertible at december 31, 2011 . 38 table of contents