risk factors 17 risk factors the risks described below are not the only risks facing us. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our business we may be unable to adapt to significant technological change which could adversely affect our business. we operate in businesses that require sophisticated data collection, processing systems, software and other technology. some of the technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly. we will be required to adapt to changing technologies, either by developing and marketing new products and services or by enhancing our existing products and services, to meet client demand. moreover, the introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render existing products and services obsolete. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies, manage and process ever-increasing amounts of data and information and improve the performance, features and reliability of our existing products and services in response to changing client and industry demands. we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction or marketing of our products and services. new products and services, or enhancements to existing products and services, may not adequately meet the requirements of current and prospective clients or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. traditional methods of television viewing are changing as a result of fragmentation of channels and digital and other new television technologies, such as video-on-demand, digital video recorders and internet viewing. if we are unable to continue to successfully adapt our media measurement systems to new viewing habits, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. consolidation in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries could put pressure on the pricing of our products and services, thereby leading to decreased earnings. consolidation in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries could reduce aggregate demand for our products and services in the future and could limit the amounts we earn for our products and services. when companies merge, the products and services they previously purchased separately are often purchased by the combined entity in the aggregate in a lesser quantity than before, leading to volume compression and loss of revenue. while we attempt to mitigate the revenue impact of any consolidation by expanding our range of products and services, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we will be able to do so as industry consolidation continues, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. client procurement strategies could put additional pressure on the pricing of our information products and services, thereby leading to decreased earnings. certain of our clients may continue to seek further price concessions from us. this puts pressure on the pricing of our information products and services, which could limit the amounts we earn. while we attempt to mitigate the revenue impact of any pricing pressure through effective negotiations and by providing services to individual businesses within particular groups, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we will be able to do so, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. continued adverse market conditions, particularly in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications or technology industries in particular, could adversely impact our revenue. as experienced in 2009, a number of adverse financial developments have impacted the u.s. and global financial markets. these developments include a significant economic deterioration both in the united states and globally, volatility and deterioration in the equity markets, and deterioration and tightening of liquidity in the 17 table of contents credit markets. in addition, issues related to sovereign debt in europe recently have negatively affected the global financial markets. the current economic environment has witnessed a significant reduction in consumer confidence and demand, impacting the demand for our customers products and services. those reductions could adversely affect the ability of some of our customers to meet their current obligations to us and hinder their ability to incur new obligations until the economy and their businesses strengthen. the inability of our customers to pay us for our services and/or decisions by current or future customers to forego or defer purchases may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, profitability and cash flows and may continue to present risks for an extended period of time. we cannot predict the impact of economic slowdowns on our future financial performance. we expect that revenues generated from our marketing information and television audience measurement services and related software and consulting services will continue to represent a substantial portion of our overall revenue for the foreseeable future. to the extent the businesses we service, especially our clients in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries, are subject to the financial pressures of, for example, increased costs or reduced demand for their products, the demand for our services, or the prices our clients are willing to pay for those services, may decline. during challenging economic times, clients, typically advertisers, within our buy segment may reduce their discretionary advertising expenditures and may be less likely to purchase our analytical services. clients within our watch segment derive a significant amount of their revenue from the sale or purchase of advertising. during challenging economic times, advertisers may reduce advertising expenditures and advertising agencies and other media may be less likely to purchase our media information services. revenues within our expositions segment are primarily derived from business-to-business trade shows and events. during challenging economic times exhibitors may cut back on attending our events which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. we have suffered losses due to goodwill impairment charges and could do so again in the future. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual review for impairment (or more frequently should indications of impairment arise). in addition, other intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. economic volatility negatively impacted our financial results and, as a direct result, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $282 million and $96 million for the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008 respectively (as well as $55 million and $336 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, relating to discontinued operations) and $245 million of intangible asset impairment charges for the year ended december 31, 2009. subsequent to the recognition of these impairment charges and as of december 31, 2010, we had goodwill and intangible assets of approximately $11.7 billion. any further downward revisions in the fair value of our reporting units or our intangible assets could result in further impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets that could materially affect our financial performance. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. we have now and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2010, we had total indebtedness of $8,558 million, however, as a result of our application of net proceeds from our initial public offering of common stock and our concurrent offering of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds, our total indebtedness will be reduced to approximately $7,149 million. furthermore, the interest payments on our indebtedness could reduce the availability of our cash flow. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to the current general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts and other general corporate purposes; 18 table of contents limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. in addition, the indentures governing our outstanding notes and our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit the ability of our operating subsidiaries to engage in activities that may be in our best interests in the long term. the failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. this could further increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. if new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash as well as continued access to the capital markets. our ability to generate cash and our access to the capital markets depend on many factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and product development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future and our ability to refinance our indebtedness. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. our cash interest expense for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $531 million, $495 million and $494 million, respectively. at december 31, 2010, we had $4,547 million of floating-rate debt under our 2006 senior secured credit facilities and our existing floating rate notes. a one percent increase in our floating rate indebtedness would increase annual interest expense by approximately $45 million (without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the success of our business depends on our ability to recruit sample participants to participate in our research samples. our business uses scanners and diaries to gather consumer data from sample households as well as set meters, people meters, active/passive meters and diaries to gather television audience measurement data from sample households. it is increasingly difficult and costly to obtain consent from households to participate in the surveys. in addition, it is increasingly difficult and costly to ensure that the selected sample of households mirrors the behaviors and characteristics of the entire population and covers all of the demographic segments requested by our clients. additionally, as consumers adopt modes of telecommunication other than traditional telephone service, such as mobile, cable and internet calling, it may become more difficult for our services to reach and recruit participants for consumer purchasing and audience measurement services. if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to recruit appropriate participants and maintain adequate participation levels, our 19 table of contents clients may lose confidence in our ratings services and we could lose the support of the relevant industry groups. if this were to happen, our consumer purchasing and audience measurement services may be materially and adversely affected. data protection laws may restrict our activities and increase our costs. various statutes and rules regulate conduct in areas such as privacy and data protection which may affect our collection, use, storage and transfer of personally identifiable information both abroad and in the united states. compliance with these laws may require us to make certain investments or may dictate that we not offer certain types of products and services or only offer such services or products after making necessary modifications. failure to comply with these laws may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, data being blocked from use and liability under contractual warranties. in addition, there is an increasing public concern regarding data and consumer protection issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection laws has been slowly increasing. there is also the possibility that the scope of existing privacy laws may be expanded. for example, several countries including the united states have regulations that restrict telemarketing to individuals who request to be included on a do-not-call list. typically, these regulations target sales activity and do not apply to survey research. if the laws were extended to include survey research, our ability to recruit research participants could be adversely affected. these or future initiatives may adversely affect our ability to generate or assemble data or to develop or market current or future products or services, which could negatively impact our business. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. the success of our business will depend, in part, on: obtaining patent protection for our technology, products and services; defending our patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property; preserving our trade secrets and maintaining the security of our know-how and data; and operating our business without infringing upon intellectual property rights held by third parties. we rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and the patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws of the united states and other countries to protect our intellectual property. these legal measures afford only limited protection and may not provide sufficient protection to prevent the infringement, misuse or misappropriation of our intellectual property. intellectual property law in several foreign jurisdictions is subject to considerable uncertainty. there can be no assurances that the protections we have available for our proprietary technology in the united states and other countries will be available to us in all of the places we sell our products and services. any infringement or misappropriation of our technology can have a negative impact on our business. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. the expiration of our patents may lead to increased competition. although our employees, consultants, clients and collaborators enter into confidentiality agreements with us, our trade secrets, data and know-how could be subject to unauthorized use, misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure. the growing need for global data, along with increased competition and technological advances, puts increasing pressure on us to share our intellectual property for client applications with others, which could result in infringement. competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. our trademarks could be challenged, which could force us to rebrand our products or services, result in a loss of brand recognition and require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. given the importance of our intellectual property, we will enforce our rights whenever it is necessary and prudent to do so. any future litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial expense and diversion of time and attention of management, may not be resolved in our favor and could adversely affect our business. 20 table of contents if third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, our operating profits could be adversely affected. we cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others in operating our business. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims that we have infringed third parties intellectual property rights. any such claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; result in our being required to pay possibly significant damages; cause us to cease providing our products and services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; divert management attention and resources; or require us to enter into potentially costly royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party intellectual property, although royalty or licensing agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. any of the above could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects and financial condition. we generate revenues throughout the world which are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, and our revenue and net income may suffer due to currency translations. we operate globally, deriving approximately 48% of revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 in currencies other than u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars, while our european operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in euros, which have recently been subject to significant volatility. outside the united states and the european union, we generate revenue and expenses predominantly in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to economic exposure. in certain instances, we may not be able to freely convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars due to limitations placed on such conversions. certain of the countries in which we operate, such as venezuela, have currencies which are considered to be hyperinflationary. this risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our international operations are exposed to risks which could impede growth in the future. we continue to explore opportunities in major international markets around the world, including china, russia, india and brazil. international operations expose us to various additional risks, which could adversely affect our business, including: costs of customizing services for clients outside of the united states; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; difficulties in managing international operations; longer sales and payment cycles; exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; exposure to local economic conditions; 21 table of contents exposure to local political conditions, including adverse tax policies, civil unrest and seizure of assets by a foreign government; and the risks of an outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism in the jurisdictions in which we operate. in countries where there has not been a historical practice of using consumer packaged goods retail information or audience measurement information in the buying and selling of advertising time, it may be difficult for us to maintain subscribers. criticism of our audience measurement service by various industry groups and market segments could adversely affect our business. due to the high-profile nature of our services in the media, internet and entertainment information industries, we could become the target of criticism by various industry groups and market segments. we strive to be fair, transparent and impartial in the production of audience measurement services, and the quality of our u.s. ratings services are voluntarily subject to review and accreditation by the media rating council, a voluntary trade organization, whose members include many of our key client constituencies. however, criticism of our business by special interests, and by clients with competing and often conflicting demands on our measurement service, could result in government regulation. while we believe that government regulation is unnecessary, no assurance can be given that legislation will not be enacted in the future that would subject our business to regulation, which could adversely affect our business. a loss of one of our largest clients could adversely impact our results of operations. our top ten clients accounted for approximately 24% of our total revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010. we cannot assure you that any of our clients will continue to use our services to the same extent, or at all, in the future. a loss of one or more of our largest clients, if not replaced by a new client or an increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on third parties to provide certain data and services in connection with the provision of our current services. we rely on third parties to provide certain data and services for use in connection with the provision of our current services. for example, our buy segment enters into agreements with third parties (primarily retailers of fast-moving consumer goods) to obtain the raw data on retail product sales it processes and edits and from which it creates products and services. these suppliers of data may increase restrictions on our use of such data, fail to adhere to our quality control standards, increase the price they charge us for this data or refuse altogether to license the data to us. in addition, we may need to enter into agreements with third parties to assist with the marketing, technical and financial aspects of expanding our services for other types of media. in the event we are unable to use such third party data and services or if we are unable to enter into agreements with third parties, when necessary, our business and/or our potential growth could be adversely affected. in the event that such data and services are unavailable for our use or the cost of acquiring such data and services increases, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on a third party for the performance of a significant portion of our worldwide information technology and operations functions, various services and assistance in certain integration projects. a failure to provide these functions, services or assistance in a satisfactory manner could have an adverse effect on our business. pursuant to the terms of a ten year agreement, effective february 19, 2008, we are dependent upon tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (collectively, tcs ) for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology and operations functions worldwide, the 22 table of contents provision of a broad suite of information technology and business process services, including general and process consulting, product engineering, program management, application development and maintenance, coding, data management, finance and accounting services and human resource services, as well as assistance in integrating and centralizing multiple systems, technologies and processes on a global scale. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with tcs and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. long term disruptions in the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and/or air service could adversely affect our business. our business is dependent on the use of the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and air service. long term disruptions in one or more of these services, which could be caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, civil unrest and/or acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. hardware and software failures, delays in the operation of our computer and communications systems or the failure to implement system enhancements may harm our business. our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. a failure of our network or data gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, client orders and day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. while many of our services have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place, we currently do not have full backup facilities everywhere in the world to provide redundant network capacity in the event of a system failure. despite any precautions we may take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. in addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. in the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. such a transfer could result in significant delays in our ability to deliver our products and services to our clients and could be costly to implement. additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements and improvements, or inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed, could damage our reputation and harm our business. finally, long-term disruptions in infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, civil unrest and/or acts of terrorism (particularly involving cities in which we have offices) could adversely affect our services. although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. the presence of our global technology and information center in florida heightens our exposure to hurricanes and tropical storms, which could disrupt our business. the technological data processing functions for certain of our u.s. operations are concentrated at our global technology and information center ( gtic ) at a single location in florida. our geographic concentration in florida heightens our exposure to a hurricane or tropical storm. these weather events could cause severe damage to our property and technology and could cause major disruptions to our operations. although our gtic was built in anticipation of severe weather events and we have insurance coverage, if we were to experience a catastrophic loss, we may exceed our policy limits and/or we may have difficulty obtaining similar insurance coverage in the future. as such, a hurricane or tropical storm could have an adverse effect on our business. 23 table of contents our services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained, our services may be perceived as not being secure and panelists and survey respondents may hold us liable for disclosure of personal data, and clients and venture partners may hold us liable or reduce their use of our services. we store and transmit large volumes of proprietary information and data that contains personally identifiable information about individuals. security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability and our reputation could be damaged. for example, hackers or individuals who attempt to breach our network security could, if successful, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. if we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate problems. we may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or saboteurs in a timely manner, or at all. techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target and, as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose current and potential clients. if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate employees, we may not be able to compete effectively and will not be able to expand our business. our success and ability to grow are dependent, in part, on our ability to hire, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of talented people, with the increasingly diverse skills needed to serve clients and expand our business, in many locations around the world. competition for highly qualified, specialized technical and managerial, and particularly consulting personnel is intense. recruiting, training and retention costs and benefits place significant demands on our resources. the inability to attract qualified employees in sufficient numbers to meet particular demands or the loss of a significant number of our employees could have an adverse effect on us, including our ability to obtain and successfully complete important client engagements and thus maintain or increase our revenues. changes in tax laws may adversely affect our reported results. changes in tax laws, regulations, related interpretations and tax accounting standards in the united states, the netherlands and other countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial results. for example, recent legislative proposals to reform u.s. taxation of non-u.s. earnings could have a material adverse effect on our financial results by subjecting a significant portion of our non-u.s. earnings to incremental u.s. taxation and/or by delaying or permanently deferring certain deductions otherwise allowed in calculating our u.s. tax liabilities. in addition, governments are increasingly considering tax law changes as a means to cover budgetary shortfalls resulting from the current economic environment. we face competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we are faced with a number of competitors in the markets in which we operate. some of our competitors in each market may have substantially greater financial marketing and other resources than we do and may in the future engage in aggressive pricing action to compete with us. although we believe we are currently able to compete effectively in each of the various markets in which we participate, we may not be able to do so in the future or be capable of maintaining or further increasing our current market share. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we may be subject to antitrust litigation or government investigation in the future, which may result in an award of money damages or force us to change the way we do business. in the past, certain of our business practices have been investigated by government antitrust or competition agencies, and we have on several occasions been sued by private parties for alleged violations of the antitrust and 24 table of contents competition laws of various jurisdictions. following some of these actions, we have changed certain of our business practices to reduce the likelihood of future litigation. although each of these material prior legal actions have been resolved, there is a risk based upon the leading position of certain of our business operations that we could, in the future, be the target of investigations by government entities or actions by private parties challenging the legality of our business practices. also, in markets where the retail trade is concentrated, regulatory authorities may perceive certain of our retail services as potential vehicles for collusive behavior by retailers or manufacturers. there can be no assurance that any such investigation or challenge will not result in an award of money damages, penalties or some form of order that might require a change in the way that we do business, any of which could adversely affect our revenue stream and/or profitability. the use of joint ventures, over which we do not have full control, could prevent us from achieving our objectives. we have conducted and will continue to conduct a number of business initiatives through joint ventures, some of which are or may be controlled by others. our joint venture partners might have economic or business objectives that are inconsistent with our objectives. our joint venture partners could go bankrupt, leaving us liable for their share of joint venture liabilities. although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. also, our joint venture partners could take appropriate actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. in addition, the terms of our joint venture agreements may limit our business opportunities. accordingly, the use of joint ventures could prevent us from achieving our intended objectives. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in countries with currencies other than the u.s. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates; revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.33 to 1.00, $1.39 to 1.00 and $1.47 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations. we have operations in both our buy and watch segments in venezuela and our functional currency for these operations is the venezuelan bolivares fuertes. venezuela currency was considered hyperinflationary as of january 1, 2010 and further, in january 2010, venezuela currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate system was announced. we have evaluated the new exchange rate system and have concluded that our local currency transactions will be denominated in u.s. dollars until venezuela currency is deemed to be non hyperinflationary. we recorded a charge of $7 million associated with the currency devaluation in january 2010 in our foreign exchange transaction gains, net line item. in june 2010, a further revision to the currency exchange rate system was made and in december 2010, the government of venezuela announced that it is eliminating the preferential exchange rate. neither the impact of the hyperinflationary accounting or the subsequent changes to the exchange rate system had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2010 nor are they expected to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements prospectively. we evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. the constant currency presentation is a non-gaap financial measure, which excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, consistent with how we evaluate our performance. we calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency financial results using the current period foreign currency exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. this calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with gaap nor should such amounts be considered in isolation. 42 table of contents results of operations (years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008) the following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our consolidated statements of operations: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2010 2009 2008 revenues $ 5,126 $ 4,808 $ 4,806 cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 2,129 2,023 2,057 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,648 1,523 1,616 depreciation and amortization 558 557 499 impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 527 96 restructuring costs 61 62 118 operating income 730 116 420 interest income 5 7 17 interest expense (660 ) (647 ) (701 ) loss on derivative instruments (27 ) (60 ) (15 ) foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net 136 (2 ) 20 other expense, net (81 ) (17 ) (12 ) income/(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates 103 (603 ) (271 ) (provision)/benefit for income taxes 46 197 (36 ) equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates 5 (22 ) (7 ) income/(loss) from continuing operations 154 (428 ) (314 ) loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (22 ) (61 ) (275 ) net income/(loss) 132 (489 ) (589 ) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 2 2 net income/(loss) attributable to nielsen stockholders $ 130 $ (491 ) $ (589 ) net income to adjusted ebitda reconciliation we define adjusted ebitda as net income/(loss) from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, stock compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items specifically described below. adjusted ebitda is not a presentation made in accordance with gaap, and our use of the term adjusted ebitda may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. we use adjusted ebitda to consistently measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. in addition to adjusted ebitda being a significant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-gaap financial information is viewed with gaap financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. 43 table of contents adjusted ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. adjusted ebitda has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. the below table presents a reconciliation from net income/(loss) to adjusted ebitda for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2010 2009 2008 net income/(loss) $ 132 $ (489 ) $ (589 ) loss from discontinued operations, net 22 61 275 interest expense, net 655 640 684 (benefit)/provision for income taxes (46 ) (197 ) 36 depreciation and amortization 558 557 499 ebitda 1,321 572 905 equity in net (income)/loss of affiliates (5 ) 22 7 other non-operating (income)/expense, net (28 ) 79 7 restructuring costs 61 62 118 impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 527 96 stock-based compensation expense 18 14 18 other items (a) 44 36 54 adjusted ebitda $ 1,411 $ 1,312 $ 1,205 (a) other items include transformation initiative and other dual running costs of $16 million, $7 million and $15 million for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. also includes consulting and other costs of $16 million, $17 million and $28 million for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, associated with information technology infrastructure transformation and fees associated with certain consulting arrangements. the 2010 amounts include preparatory costs for our initial public offering of common stock and the 2008 amounts include charges associated with a deferred compensation plan. also includes sponsor monitoring fees of $12 million, $12 million and $11 million for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2010 versus the year ended december 31, 2009 revenues our revenues increased 6.6% to $5,126 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $4,808 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 6.1% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 0.5% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by an 8.9% increase within our buy segment (8.2% on a constant currency basis) and a 3.9% increase within our watch segment (3.7% on a constant currency basis), offset in part by a 6.6% decline in our expositions segment (6.7% on a constant currency basis). cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 5.2% to $2,129 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $2,023 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 5.0% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.2% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases resulted from an 8.1% increase within our buy segment (7.9% on a constant currency basis) due to the global expansion of our services. costs within our watch segment increased slightly due to volume while costs within our expositions segment remained flat. corporate costs increased by approximately $9 million in 2010 as compared to 2009 driven by certain infrastructure investments. 44 table of contents selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative ( sg&amp;a ) expenses increased 8.3% to $1,648 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $1,523 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 7.6% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.7% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by an 8.7% increase within our buy segment (7.7% on a constant currency basis) due to increases in client service costs associated with the global expansion of our services as well as a 13.6% increase within our watch segment both on an as-reported and constant currency basis due to increased investment in three-screen measurement initiatives. corporate costs increased by approximately $15 million as a result of increased investment in global product initiatives, a $3 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and costs attributable to the initial public offering of our common stock consummated in january 2011. these increases were partially offset by a 36.8% decline in our expositions segment due to the impact of cost savings initiatives. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $558 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to $557 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations decreased to $215 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $247 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 resulting from lower amortization on purchase price adjustments from the acquisition for certain software assets that became fully amortized during 2010. this decline was offset by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with higher capital expenditures. restructuring costs transformation initiative we recorded net credits of $9 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 associated with adjustments to previously established liabilities for employee severance and other benefits. we recorded $33 million in restructuring charges, primarily relating to severance costs, for the year ended december 31, 2009. other productivity initiatives we recorded $70 million in restructuring charges associated with productivity initiatives during the year ended december 31, 2010. of these amounts, approximately $11 million related to property lease termination charges with the remainder relating to severance charges associated with employee terminations. we recorded $29 million in restructuring charges associated with these initiatives during the year ended december 31, 2009. the charges included severance costs of $22 million, primarily in europe as well as $7 million of contractual termination costs and asset write-offs. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2010 was $730 million compared to operating income of $116 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. operating income of $454 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 within our buy segment increased from $361 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. operating income within our watch segment was $327 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $73 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. operating income within our expositions segment was $49 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to a loss of $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. corporate operating expenses increased to $100 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $67 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. 45 table of contents interest expense interest expense was $660 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to $647 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, as increases in interest costs on debentures and our senior secured term loans were only partially offset by lower interest costs on derivative instruments. loss on derivative instruments the loss on derivative instruments was $27 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $60 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the reduction in losses resulted from movements in the euro relative to the u.s. dollar associated with a foreign currency swap derivative instrument, which was terminated in march 2009 as well as the maturity of $2.5 billion in notional amount of interest rate swaps between november 2009 and november 2010 for which hedge accounting was discontinued in february 2009 partially offset by a $9 million loss on a foreign currency forward contract in the fourth quarter of 2010. foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net, represent the net gain or loss on revaluation of external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar have a significant effect on our operating results, particularly the euro. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.33 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to $1.39 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2009. foreign currency exchange resulted in a $136 million gain for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $2 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the gains in 2010 resulted primarily from the fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro applied to certain of our euro denominated senior secured term loans and debenture loans as well as fluctuations in certain currencies including the euro and canadian dollar associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. other expense, net other expense, net of $81 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 includes net charges of approximately $90 million associated with the redemption and subsequent retirement of all $870 million aggregate principal amount of our 10.00% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 105% of the amount redeemed as well as all 150 million aggregate principal amount of our 9% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 104.5% of the amount redeemed. the charges related to the associated redemption premiums and recognition of previously deferred financing costs. these charges were partially offset by gains attributable to business divestitures. other expense, net of $17 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 primarily included net charges of approximately $19 million associated with the purchase and cancellation of gbp 250 million 5.625% emtn debenture notes and the write-off of deferred financing costs associated with the modification of our senior secured credit facility offset by net gains of associated with certain divestitures. income/(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates was $103 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $603 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the change primarily relates to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in september 2009, lower derivative losses, higher foreign currency exchange transaction gains and improved business performance primarily attributable to revenue growth. income taxes the effective tax benefit rates for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009 were (45)% and 33%, respectively. the effective tax benefit rate for the year ended december 31, 2010 was higher than the statutory 46 table of contents rate primarily due to the favorable effect of certain foreign currency exchange gains, financing activities, release of valuation allowances and the impact of the tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns. the effective tax benefit rate for the year ended december 31, 2009 was higher than the statutory tax rate primarily due to state and foreign withholding and income taxes and the impact of the tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, which is partially offset by impairments of goodwill and intangible assets, which had a tax basis significantly lower than the underlying book basis and therefore a lower tax benefit. at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $114 million and $129 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009 of $25 million and $23 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our benefit (provision) for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $7 million to $16 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates equity in net income of affiliates was $5 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to a loss of $22 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. during the third quarter of 2009 we concluded that the carrying value of our non-controlling ownership interest in scarborough research ( scarborough ) was impaired as a result of continued declines in customer discretionary spending and the related impact on the launch of new performance tracking and marketing products. we deemed this impairment to be other than temporary and, accordingly, recorded an after-tax non-cash impairment charge of $26 million (net of tax of $18 million). discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2010, loss from discontinued operations, net of tax was $22 million compared to a loss of $61 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. discontinued operations primarily relate to our publications operating segment. the loss for the year ended december 31, 2010 reflects the cessation of operations during 2010 as well as a $7 million charge (net of tax of $5 million) associated with the settlement of an outstanding lawsuit. the loss for the year ended december 31, 2009 includes goodwill impairment charges of $55 million. adjusted ebitda our adjusted ebitda increased 7.5% to $1,411 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $1,312 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 6.8% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 27.52% for the year ended december 31, 2010 from 27.28% for the year ended december 31, 2009. see results of operations (years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008) for the reconciliation of net income/(loss) to adjusted ebitda. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2009 versus the year ended december 31, 2008 revenues our revenues were flat at $4,808 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to $4,806 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, an increase of 4.0% on a constant currency basis, which excludes the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our revenue performance included a 10.5% 47 table of contents increase within our watch segment (11.5% on a constant currency basis), a 2.9% decrease within our buy segment (a 2.7% increase on a constant currency basis) and a 25.1% decline in our expositions segment (24.6% on a constant currency basis). cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues decreased 1.6% to $2,023 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 from $2,057 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, an increase of 2.6% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 4.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the change in cost of revenues was driven by a 4.0% increase from the impact of acquisitions and divestitures within both our buy and watch segments (4.2% increase on a constant currency basis) offset by cost savings due to the effects of the transformation initiative (see discussion below under restructuring costs transformation initiative ) and other productivity initiatives. cost of revenues within our expositions segment decreased 30.6% (29.8% on a constant currency basis) due to lower variable exhibition costs. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization sg&amp;a expenses decreased 5.7% to $1,523 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 from $1,616 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, a decrease of 1.5% on a constant currency basis excluding a 4.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. sg&amp;a expenses declined 44.6% and 14.9% (44.9% and 14.6% on a constant currency basis) in corporate and our expositions segments, respectively, which was slightly offset by a 3.5% increase (3.7% on a constant currency basis) due to the impact of acquisitions and divestitures in both our buy and watch segments. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization increased to $557 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 from $499 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased slightly to $247 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 from $245 million for the year ended december 31, 2008 resulting from higher amortization on acquired intangible assets in 2009. additionally, there were increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with higher capital expenditures for software and infrastructure development equipment projects to enhance our technology platform and global infrastructure. impairment of goodwill and intangible assets during 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $282 million and a non-cash intangible asset impairment charge of $245 million. these charges related to both our watch and expositions segments. a deferred tax benefit of $103 million was recognized during the period as a result of these impairment charges. we recorded a $96 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge relating to a reporting unit within our watch segment in 2008. a deferred tax benefit of $7 million was recognized during the period as a result of this impairment charge. restructuring costs transformation initiative the transformation initiative was completed during 2009. we incurred $33 million in restructuring charges primarily relating to severance costs for the year ended december 31, 2009. we recorded $118 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2008. the charges included severance costs as well as $24 million of contractual termination costs and asset write-offs. 48 table of contents other productivity initiatives in december 2009, we commenced certain specific restructuring actions attributable to defined cost-reduction programs, primarily in europe and north america, directed towards achieving increased productivity in future periods. we recorded $29 million in restructuring charges associated with these initiatives during the fourth quarter of 2009. the charges included severance costs of $22 million as well as $7 million of contractual termination costs and asset write-offs. see note 8 restructuring activities to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2009 decreased to $116 million, from $420 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. operating income within our buy segment increased to $361 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 from $315 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. operating loss within our watch segment was $73 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to income of $171 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. operating loss within our expositions segment was $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 as compared to income of $50 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. operating expenses within corporate decreased to $67 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 from $116 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. interest income and expense interest income was $7 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to $17 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. interest expense was $647 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to $701 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. the decrease was driven primarily by the termination and subsequent capitalization of the term loan with luxco and the impact of interest allocations to discontinued operations, slightly offset by higher interest expense on our debenture loan portfolio as a result of new debt issuances in 2009. loss on derivative instruments the loss on derivative instruments was $60 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to a loss of $15 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. the increased loss resulted primarily from the change in fair value of certain of our interest rate swaps for which hedge accounting was discontinued in february 2009 as well as losses attributable to movements in the euro relative to the u.s. dollar associated with a foreign currency swap derivative instrument, which was terminated in march 2009. foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net, represent the net gain or loss on revaluation of external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar have a significant effect on our operating results, particularly the euro. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.39 to 1.00 and $1.47 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2009 and the year ended december 31, 2008, respectively. foreign currency exchange resulted in a $2 million loss for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to a $20 million gain recorded in the year ended december 31, 2008 primarily as a result of the fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro applied to certain of our euro denominated senior secured term loans and debenture loans as well as a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. 49 table of contents other expense, net other expense, net was $17 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 versus $12 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. the 2009 amount primarily includes net charges of approximately $15 million associated with the purchase and cancellation of gbp 250 million 5.625% emtn debenture notes and the write-off of deferred debt issuance costs associated with the modification of our 2006 senior secured credit facilities offset in part by net gains primarily associated with certain divestitures, including the sale of our brazilian operations within our expositions segment. loss from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net loss of affiliates for the year ended december 31, 2009, loss from continuing operations before income taxes, and equity in net loss of affiliates was $603 million compared to a $271 million loss for the year ended december 31, 2008. the current period compared with the prior period results primarily reflects impairment of goodwill and intangible assets offset in part by lower restructuring expenses, lower interest costs and increased operating performance, primarily driven by cost reduction programs. equity in net loss of affiliates for the year ended december 31, 2009, equity in net loss of affiliates was $22 million compared to $7 million for the year ended december 31, 2008 primarily driven by an after-tax non-cash impairment charge of $26 million (net of a tax adjustment of $18 million) associated with our non-controlling ownership interest in scarborough in the third quarter of 2009. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008 were a benefit of 33% and an expense of (13)%, respectively. the effective tax benefit rate for the year ended december 31, 2009 was higher than the dutch statutory rate primarily due to state and foreign withholding and income taxes and the impact of the tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, which is partially offset by impairments of goodwill and intangible assets, which had a tax basis significantly lower than the underlying book basis and therefore a lower tax benefit. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2008 was lower than the dutch statutory rate primarily due to the impairment of goodwill, which had a tax basis significantly lower than the book basis and therefore a lower tax benefit, tax on distribution from foreign subsidiaries, change in estimates related to global uncertain tax positions, state and foreign withholding and income taxes, change in estimates for other tax positions and certain non-deductible charges, which were partially offset by the impact of the tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where we file tax returns. discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2009, loss from discontinued operations, net of tax of $31 million, was $61 million compared to a $275 million loss for the year ended december 31, 2008. discontinued operations primarily relate to our publications operating segment and the loss for the year ended december 31, 2009 includes a net loss on the sale of our media properties within the publications operating segment, including the hollywood reporter and billboard, to e5 global media llc, of $14 million, net of tax of $3 million. additionally, losses for both 2009 and 2008 include goodwill impairment charges associated with our publications operating segment of $55 million and $336 million, respectively. the loss for the year ended december 31, 2008 is partially offset by a gain of $19 million relating to the settlement of tax contingencies associated with the sale of our directories segment to world directories. 50 table of contents adjusted ebitda our adjusted ebitda increased 8.9% to $1,312 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 from $1,205 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, or 11.7% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 27.28% for the year ended december 31, 2009 from 25.06% for the year ended december 31, 2008. see results of operations (years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008) for the reconciliation of net income/(loss) to adjusted ebitda. business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to the year ended december 31, 2009 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to the year ended december 31, 2009, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2010 year ended december 31, 2009 % variance 2010 vs. 2009 reported year ended december 31, 2009 constant currency % variance 2010 vs. 2009 constant currency revenues by segment buy $ 3,260 $ 2,993 8.9 % $ 3,014 8.2 % watch 1,698 1,635 3.9 % 1,637 3.7 % expositions 168 180 (6.6 )% 180 (6.7 )% total $ 5,126 $ 4,808 6.6 % $ 4,831 6.1 % buy segment revenues revenues increased 8.9% to $3,260 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $2,993 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 8.2% on a constant currency basis driven by a 20.6% increase in developing markets (16.7% on a constant currency basis) and a 4.4% increase in developed markets (4.8% on a constant currency basis), as our customers continue to expand geographically and increase their spending on analytical services. revenues from information services increased 6.1% to $2,288 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $2,157 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 5.4% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.7% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by 16.9% growth in developing markets (13.3% on a constant currency basis) as a result of continued expansion of both our retail measurement and consumer panel services to both new and existing customers and new markets. revenue from developed markets increased 2.0% (2.3% on a constant currency basis) as growth in retail measurement services in western europe and north america, primarily to existing customers, was offset by the impact of the divestiture of our box office scanning business. revenues from insights services increased 16.2% to $972 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $836 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 15.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 1.0% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by strong growth in both developed and developing markets due to increases in customer discretionary spending on new product forecasting and other analytical services, which can be cyclical in nature. watch segment revenues revenues increased 3.9% to $1,698 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $1,635 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 3.7% on a constant currency basis. television measurement grew 3.0% as 51 table of contents increases in spending from existing customers offset declines attributable to a planned international market closure. online and mobile grew 9.2% as increases in both new and existing customer spending were offset slightly by the timing of certain client deliverables as compared to the prior year. expositions segment revenues revenues declined 6.6% to $168 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $180 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 primarily as a result of softness in both the building industry and retail sector tradeshows. business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, impairment charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to consistently measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions) operating income/(loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 454 $ 29 $ 215 $ 7 $ 6 $ 711 watch 327 13 304 3 2 649 expositions 49 2 27 78 corporate and eliminations (100 ) 17 12 8 36 (27 ) total nielsen $ 730 $ 61 $ 558 $ 18 $ 44 $ 1,411 year ended december 31, 2009 (in millions) operating income/(loss) impairment charges and restructuring charges/ (credits) (2) depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 361 $ 39 $ 230 $ 6 $ 8 $ 644 watch (73 ) 411 279 3 3 623 expositions (105 ) 128 40 63 corporate and eliminations (67 ) 11 8 5 25 (18 ) total nielsen $ 116 $ 589 $ 557 $ 14 $ 36 $ 1,312 (1) other items include transformation initiative and other dual running costs of $16 million and $7 million for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. also includes consulting and other costs of $16 million and $17 million for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with information technology infrastructure transformation, fees associated with certain consulting arrangements and preparatory costs for our initial public offering of common stock. also includes sponsor monitoring fees of $12 million for both the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009. 52 table of contents (2) includes $402 million goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges within our watch segment in 2009 and $125 million within our expositions segment in 2009. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2010 year ended december 31, 2009 % variance 2010 vs. 2009 reported year ended december 31, 2009 constant currency % variance 2010 vs. 2009 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 711 $ 644 10.3 % $ 653 8.9 % watch 649 623 4.2 % 623 4.2 % expositions 78 63 24.0 % 64 22.3 % corporate and eliminations (27 ) (18 ) (49.5 )% (18 ) (49.2 )% total nielsen $ 1,411 $ 1,312 7.5 % $ 1,322 6.8 % buy. operating income increased 25.8% to $454 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $361 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 due to the strong revenue performance mentioned above as well as lower restructuring costs and depreciation and amortization, offset in part by the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and investments in developing markets expansion. non-gaap business segment income increased 8.9% on a constant currency basis. watch. operating income was $327 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to a loss of $73 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the increase was driven by the impact of impairment charges recorded in 2009 and the revenue performance discussed above, which was offset by the impact of the planned international market closure, $25 million in increased depreciation and amortization expense associated with technology infrastructure initiatives and local people meters and increased investment in three-screen measurement initiatives. non-gaap business segment income increased 4.2% on a constant currency basis. expositions. operating income was $49 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to a loss of $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 driven by the impact of impairment charges recorded in 2009 as well as lower depreciation expense and the costs savings effects of the transformation initiative and other productivity initiatives. non-gaap business segment income increased 22.3% on a constant currency basis. corporate and eliminations . operating loss was $100 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to an operating loss of $67 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 due to increases in certain product investments and global infrastructure costs as well as higher restructuring charges and costs attributable to the initial public offering of our common stock. non-gaap business segment loss increased 49.2% on a constant currency basis. 53 table of contents business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2009 versus the year ended december 31, 2008 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue growth data for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to the year ended december 31, 2008, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. in order to determine the percentage change in revenue on a constant currency basis, we remove the positive and negative impacts of changes foreign currency exchange rates: (in millions) year ended december 31, 2009 year ended december 31, 2008 % variance 2009 vs. 2008 reported year ended december 31, 2008 constant currency % variance 2009 vs. 2008 constant currency revenues by segment buy $ 2,993 $ 3,084 (2.9 )% $ 2,915 2.7 % watch 1,635 1,480 10.5 % 1,466 11.5 % expositions 180 240 (25.1 )% 238 (24.6 )% corporate and eliminations 2 n/a 2 n/a total $ 4,808 $ 4,806 0.1 % $ 4,621 4.0 % buy segment revenues revenues decreased 2.9% to $2,993 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 from $3,084 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, an increase of 2.7% on a constant currency basis as our customers continue to expand geographically and increase their spending on analytical services. revenue from developing markets decreased 2.6% (an 8.0% increase on a constant currency basis) and revenue from developed markets decreased 3.1% (a 0.8% increase on a constant currency basis). revenues from information services decreased 4.7% to $2,157 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 from $2,262 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, an increase of 1.7%, on a constant currency basis excluding a 6.4% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenue from developing markets declined 4.0%, however, was the primary driver for the constant currency increase mentioned above, increasing 7.5% on a constant currency basis as a result of continued geographic expansion of both our retail measurement and consumer panel services to both new and existing customers. revenues from insights services increased 1.8% to $836 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 from $822 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, or 5.3% on a constant currency basis excluding a 3.5% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by 0.8% growth in developing markets (8.9% on a constant currency basis) and the impact of acquisitions. the growth in developing markets related to continued expansion of our analytical services, primarily to existing customers who are expanding their presence in these markets. watch segment revenues revenues increased 10.5% to $1,635 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 from $1,480 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, or 11.5% on a constant currency basis. excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenue grew 1.7% (2.6% on a constant currency basis) as our television audience market expansion was offset by lower spending by our customers on enhanced analytical services. this growth was primarily driven by a 4.7% constant currency increase in north american television measurement due to volume increases associated with measurement data from five additional markets being added to the local people meter ( lpm ) program. expositions segment revenues revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009 decreased 25.1% to $180 million from $240 million for the year ended december 31, 2008, due largely to lower exhibitor attendance driven by the economic environment. 54 table of contents business segment profitability the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, impairment charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below. year ended december 31, 2009 (in millions) operating income/(loss) impairment charges and restructuring charges/(credits) (1) depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (2) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 361 $ 39 $ 230 $ 6 $ 8 $ 644 watch (73 ) 411 279 3 3 623 expositions (105 ) 128 40 63 corporate and eliminations (67 ) 11 8 5 25 (18 ) total nielsen $ 116 $ 589 $ 557 $ 14 $ 36 $ 1,312 year ended december 31, 2008 (in millions) operating income/(loss) impairment charges and restructuring charges/(credits) (1) depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (2) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 315 $ 74 $ 206 $ 4 $ 11 $ 610 watch 171 110 245 7 3 536 expositions 50 1 40 1 1 93 corporate and eliminations (116 ) 29 8 6 39 (34 ) total nielsen $ 420 $ 214 $ 499 $ 18 $ 54 $ 1,205 (1) includes $402 million and $96 million of goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges within our watch segment in 2009 and 2008, respectively and $125 million within our expositions segment in 2009. (2) other items include transformation initiative dual running costs of $7 million and $15 million for the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. also includes consulting and other costs of $17 million and $28 million for the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, associated with information technology infrastructure transformation, fees associated with certain consulting arrangements and charges associated with a deferred compensation plan. also includes sponsor monitoring fees of $12 million and $11 million for the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2009 year ended december 31, 2008 % variance 2009 vs. 2008 reported year ended december 31, 2008 constant currency % variance 2009 vs. 2008 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 644 $ 610 5.5 % $ 583 10.5 % watch 623 536 16.2 % 534 16.7 % expositions 63 93 (31.8 )% 92 (31.2 )% corporate and eliminations (18 ) (34 ) 46.0 % (34 ) 46.6 % total nielsen $ 1,312 $ 1,205 8.9 % $ 1,175 11.7 % buy. operating income increased to $361 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 from $315 million for the year ended december 31, 2008 due to lower restructuring charges, the revenue growth mentioned above and the effects of the transformation initiative and other productivity initiatives. non-gaap business segment income increased 10.5% on a constant currency basis. 55 table of contents watch. operating loss was $73 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to operating income of $171 million for the year ended december 31, 2008 due to increases in restructuring and impairment charges offset by the revenue growth mentioned above and cost savings from the impact of our transformation initiative. non-gaap business segment income increased 16.7% on a constant currency basis. expositions. operating loss was $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to operating income of $50 million for the year ended december 31, 2008 due to intangible asset impairment charges as well as declines in our revenues due to the economic environment. non-gaap business segment income decreased 31.2% on a constant currency basis. corporate and eliminations . operating loss was $67 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to $116 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. non-gaap business segment loss decreased 46.6% on a constant currency basis. these decreases were due to lower expenses on certain product initiatives as well as cost savings from the impact of the transformation initiative. liquidity and capital resources overview and 2011 capital markets transactions as a result of the acquisition and related financing, our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. at december 31, 2010, cash and cash equivalents were $421 million and our total indebtedness was $8,558 million. in addition, we also had $668 million available for borrowing under our senior secured revolving credit facility at december 31, 2010. our cash interest paid for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $531 million, $495 million and $494 million, respectively. on january 31, 2011, we completed an initial public offering of 82,142,858 shares of our 0.07 par value common stock at a price of $23.00 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1,804 million, net of $85 million of underwriter discounts. concurrent with our offering of common stock, we issued $288 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.25% mandatory convertible subordinated bonds due february 1, 2013 ( the bonds ), generating proceeds of approximately $277 million, net of $11 million of underwriter discounts. interest on the bonds will be payable quarterly in arrears in february, may, august and november of each year, commencing in may 2011. the bonds will be mandatorily converted into between 10,416,700 and 12,499,925 shares of our common stock on february 1, 2013 at a conversion rate per $50.00 principal amount of the bonds of not more than 2.1739 shares and not less than 1.8116 shares depending on the market value of our common stock (the average of the volume weighted-average price of our common stock for a 20 consecutive trading day period beginning on the 25 th trading day immediately preceding february 1, 2013) relative to the initial price and the threshold appreciation price per share of $23.00 and $27.60, respectively. we utilized substantially all of the combined net proceeds of approximately $2,081 million associated with the aforementioned transactions to settle certain advisory agreements with the sponsors (see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, investments in affiliates and related party transactions for information regarding these advisory agreements) and redeem and retire certain issuances of our long-term indebtedness as follows: on january 31, 2011, each of our subsidiaries party to certain advisory agreements agreed, along with the sponsors, to terminate all such agreements in exchange for a settlement of $102 million. we will record this pre-tax amount as an expense to our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2011. on february 9, 2011, we paid approximately $201 million to redeem $164 million of our outstanding $467 million ($500 million aggregate principal amount) 11.50% senior discount notes due 2016 with 56 table of contents a redemption cost of the stated rate applied to the principal amount being redeemed plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest to the principal amount. we will record a pre-tax debt extinguishment charge of approximately $34 million in our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2011 associated with this redemption. on february 9, 2011, we paid approximately $129 million to redeem $107 million of our outstanding $307 million ($330 million aggregate principal amount) 11.625% senior discount notes due 2014 with a redemption cost of the stated rate applied to the principal amount being redeemed plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest to the principal amount. we will record a pre-tax debt extinguishment charge of approximately $23 million in our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2011 associated with this redemption. on february 25, 2011, we paid approximately $1,133 million to redeem all of our outstanding $999 million ($1,070 million aggregate principal amount) 12 1/2% senior subordinated discount notes due 2016 at a price of 105.89% of the aggregate principal amount. we will record a pre-tax debt extinguishment charge of approximately $123 million in our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2011 associated with this redemption. on february 25, 2011, we paid approximately $251 million to redeem 163 million ( 174 million aggregate principal amount) of our 11.125% senior discount debenture loan due 2016 at a price of 104.87% of the aggregate principal amount. we will record a pre-tax debt extinguishment charge of approximately $26 million in our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2011 associated with this redemption. on march 2, 2011 we anticipate paying approximately $244 million to redeem 159 million ( 169 million aggregate principal amount) 11.125% senior discount debenture loan due 2016 at a price of 104.87% of the aggregate principal amount. we will record a pre-tax debt extinguishment charge of approximately $25 million in our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2011 associated with this redemption. following this transaction all our outstanding 11.125% senior discount debenture notes will have been redeemed. considering the result of only the aforementioned transactions, our total indebtedness of $8,558 million as of december 31, 2010 will be reduced to approximately $7,149 million. although we continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness, we believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. we expect the cash flow from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, and capital spending over the next year. in addition we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. it is possible that continued changes to global economic conditions could adversely affect our cash flows through increased interest costs or our ability to obtain external financing or to refinance existing indebtedness. refer to the subsequent events section below for a discussion of certain capital markets activities occurring subsequent to december 31, 2010. financing transactions senior secured credit facilities the description of the 2006 senior secured credit facilities below is as of december 31, 2010. on august 12, 2010, we completed a term loan extension offer in accordance with the terms of the 2006 senior secured credit facilities. see overview of financing transactions for further information on the 2010 amendment. the senior secured credit agreement provides for two term loan facilities of $1,610 million and 227 million maturing in 2013 and four term loan facilities, including two dollar-denominated term loan facilities totaling 57 table of contents $2,386 million and two euro-denominated term loan facilities totaling 273 million, maturing in 2016, for which total outstanding borrowings were $4,481 million at december 31, 2010. in addition, the senior secured credit agreement contains a six-year $688 million senior secured revolving credit facility under which we had no borrowings outstanding as of december 31, 2010. we had an aggregate of $20 million of letters of credit outstanding as of december 31, 2010, which reduced our total borrowing capacity to $668 million. the senior secured revolving credit facility of nielsen finance llc, the nielsen company (us), inc., nielsen holding and finance b.v. can be used for revolving loans, letters of credit, guarantees and for swingline loans, and is available in u.s. dollars, euros and certain other currencies. see overview of financing transactions section for further information on transactions relating to these facilities. we are required to repay installments only on the borrowings under the two senior secured term loan facilities maturing in 2016 in quarterly principal amounts of 0.25% of their original principal amount, with the remaining amount payable on their maturity date. borrowings under the senior secured term loan facilities bear interest at a rate as determined by the type of borrowing, equal to either (a) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (1) the federal funds rate plus 0.5% or (2) the prime rate or (b) a libor rate for the currency of such borrowings (collectively, the base rate ), plus, in each case, an applicable margin. the applicable margins for the senior secured term loans that mature in 2013 vary depending on our secured leverage ratio. the applicable margins for two of the senior secured term loans that mature in 2016 are set at a fixed rate and the margin for the remaining 2016 term loans vary depending upon our total leverage and credit rating. borrowings under the senior secured revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to an applicable margin plus the base rate. the applicable margins for the senior secured revolving credit facility vary depending on our total leverage ratio. we pay a quarterly commitment fee (currently 0.375%) on unused commitments under the senior secured revolving facility. the applicable commitment fee rate may vary subject to us attaining certain leverage ratios. our 2006 senior secured credit facilities contain a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) (collectively, the credit facilities covenant parties ) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business the credit facilities covenant parties conduct. in addition, the credit facilities covenant parties are required to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. neither nielsen holdings nor tnc b.v. is bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the credit agreement. the senior secured credit facilities also contain certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. we have maintained compliance with all such covenants described above. pursuant to our senior secured credit facilities, commencing in 2008, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our senior secured credit facilities to the extent in any full calendar year we generate excess cash flow ( ecf ), as defined in the credit agreement. the percentage of ecf that must be applied as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda (as defined below), as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. to the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ecf clause, such payment must generally occur on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. in 2010 our operations realized ecf, but no mandatory repayment is required due to our making voluntary repayments in the course of the year and our year-end total net debt to covenant ebitda ratio. our next ecf measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2011 results, and therefore it is uncertain at this time if we will be required to make any corresponding mandatory prepayments in early 2012. 58 table of contents in june 2009, we entered into a senior secured loan agreement with goldman sachs lending partners llc, which provides for senior secured term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $500 million (the new term loans ) bearing interest at a fixed rate of 8.50%. the new term loans are secured on a pari passu basis with our existing obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and have a maturity of eight years. the net proceeds from the issuance of the new term loans of approximately $481 million were used in their entirety to pay down senior secured term loan obligations under our existing senior secured credit facilities. in addition, the new term loans include negative covenants, subject to significant exceptions, restricting or limiting the ability of the credit facilities covenant parties to, among other things, incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates and enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions. neither nielsen holdings nor tnc b.v. is bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the credit agreement. the new term loans also contain certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. our senior secured credit facilities are guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets (other than cash) of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of tnc b.v. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities. debt securities in august 2006, we received proceeds of 200 million ($257 million) on the issuance by tnc b.v. of the 343 million 11.125% senior discount notes due 2016 ( senior discount notes ), with a carrying value of $427 million at december 31, 2010. interest accretes through 2011 and is payable semi-annually commencing february 2012. the senior discount notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equal in right of payment to all of the existing and future senior indebtedness of tnc b.v. the notes are effectively subordinated to the existing and future secured indebtedness of tnc b.v. to the extent of the assets securing such indebtedness and will be structurally subordinated to all obligations of the subsidiaries of tnc b.v. in august 2006, we issued $1,070 million 12.5% senior subordinated discount notes due 2016 ( senior subordinated discount notes ), with a carrying value of $999 million at december 31, 2010. interest accretes through 2011 and is payable semi-annually commencing february 2012. the senior subordinated discount notes are unsecured senior subordinated obligations and are subordinated in right of payment to all nielsen existing and future senior indebtedness, including the senior notes and the senior secured credit facilities. in august 2006, we issued $650 million 10% and 150 million 9% senior notes due 2014. interest is payable semi-annually from february 2007. on april 16, 2008, we issued $220 million aggregate principal amount of 10% senior notes due 2014. cash interest accrues at a rate of 10% per annum from the issue date and is payable semi-annually from august 2008. in november and december 2010 we redeemed all $870 million aggregate principal amount of our 10.00% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 105% of the amount redeemed as well as all 150 million aggregate principal amount of our 9% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 104.5% of the amount redeemed. the redemption and subsequent retirement of these collective notes resulted in a loss of $90 million associated with the redemption option premium and recognition of previously deferred debt issuance costs recorded as a component of other expense/(income) in the consolidated statement of operations in the fourth quarter of 2010. these redemptions were consummated using the proceeds from the issuance of a combined $1,080 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2018 discussed further below. 59 table of contents in january 2009, we issued $330 million in aggregate principal amount of 11.625% senior notes due 2014 (the 11.625% senior notes ). the 11.625% senior notes mature on february 1, 2014. cash interest accrues at a rate of 11.625% per annum from the issue date and is payable semi-annually from august 2009. on may 1, 2009, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 11.5% senior notes due 2016 (the 11.5% senior notes ). the 11.5% senior notes mature on may 1, 2016. cash interest accrues at a rate of 11.5% per annum from the issue date and is payable semi-annually from november 2009. in october and november 2010, we issued a combined $1,080 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2018 at an issue price of $1,085 million with cash proceeds of approximately $1,065 million, net of fees and expenses. the senior notes above are collectively referred to herein as the senior notes. the carrying values of the combined issuances of the senior notes were $1,858 million at december 31, 2010. the senior notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equal in right of payment to all of the existing and future senior indebtedness of nielsen finance llc and nielsen finance co. the indentures governing the senior notes and senior subordinated discount notes limit the ability of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute a majority of nielsen subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. upon a change in control, nielsen finance llc and nielsen finance co. are required to make an offer to redeem all of the senior notes and senior subordinated discount notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. the senior notes and senior subordinated discount notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v. emtn program and other financing arrangements we have a euro medium term note program ( emtn ) program in place. all debt securities and most private placements are quoted on the luxembourg stock exchange. we had carrying values of $155 million outstanding under the emtn program at december 31, 2010. we can no longer issue new debt under the emtn program. overview of financing transactions we entered into the following transactions in 2008: in february 2008, we entered into a two-year interest rate swap agreement which fixed the libor-related portion of the interest rates for $500 million of our variable rate debt. effective april 2, 2008, we obtained a 25 basis point reduction of the applicable margin on our u.s. dollar and euro senior secured term loan facilities as a result of achieving a secured leverage ratio below 4.25 as of december 31, 2007. in addition, we obtained a 25 basis point reduction of the applicable margin on our senior secured revolving credit facility as a result of achieving a total leverage ratio below 6.0 as of december 31, 2007. on april 16, 2008, we issued $220 million aggregate principal amount of 10% senior notes due 2014. the net proceeds of the offering were used to finance our acquisition of iag and to pay related fees and expenses. 60 table of contents we entered into the following transactions in 2009: in january 2009, we issued $330 million in aggregate principal amount of 11.625 % senior notes due 2014 at an issue price of $297 million with cash proceeds of approximately $290 million, net of fees and expenses. in february 2009, we entered into two three-year forward interest rate swap agreements with starting dates of november 9, 2009. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates for $500 million of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 2.47%. the commencement date of the interest rate swaps coincides with a $1 billion notional amount interest rate swap maturity that was entered into in november 2006. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in march 2009, we purchased and cancelled approximately gbp 101 million of our total gbp 250 million outstanding 5.625% emtn debenture notes. this transaction was pursuant to a cash tender offer, whereby we paid, and participating note holders received, a price of &pound;940 per &pound;1,000 in principal amount of the notes, plus accrued interest. in conjunction with the gbp note cancellation we satisfied, and paid in cash, a portion of the remarketing settlement value associated with the cancelled notes to the two holders of a remarketing option associated with the notes. in addition, we unwound a portion of our existing gbp/euro foreign currency swap, which was previously designated as a foreign currency cash flow hedge. we recorded a net loss of $3 million as a result of the combined elements of this transaction in march 2009 as a component of other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations. the net cash paid for the combined elements of this transaction was approximately $197 million. in march 2009, we terminated 200 million notional to $259 million notional cross-currency swap, which previously converted part of our euro-denominated external debt to u.s. dollar debt and received a cash settlement of approximately $2 million. no hedge designation was made for this swap and therefore all prior changes in fair value were recorded in earnings. in april 2009, we issued $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 11.5% senior notes due 2016 at an issue price of $461 million with cash proceeds of approximately $452 million, net of fees and expenses. in june 2009, we purchased and cancelled all of our remaining outstanding gbp 149 million 5.625% emtn debenture notes. this transaction was pursuant to a cash tender offer, whereby we paid, and participating note holders received, par value for the notes, plus accrued interest. in conjunction with the gbp note cancellation, we satisfied, and paid in cash, the remarketing settlement value to two holders of the remaining portion of the remarketing option associated with the notes. in addition, we unwound the remaining portion of our existing gbp/euro foreign currency swap, which was previously designated as a foreign currency cash flow hedge. we recorded a net loss of approximately $12 million in june 2009 as a component of other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations as a result of the combined elements of this transaction. the net cash paid for the combined elements of this transaction was approximately $330 million. in june 2009, we entered into a senior secured loan agreement with goldman sachs lending partners llc, which provides for senior secured term loans in the aggregated principal amount of $500 million (the new term loans ) bearing interest at a fixed rate of 8.50%. the new term loans are secured on a pari passu basis with our existing obligations under our 2006 senior secured credit facilities and have a maturity of eight years. the net proceeds from the issuance of the new term loans of approximately $481 million were used in their entirety to pay down senior secured term loan obligations under our 2006 senior secured credit facilities. in june 2009, we received the requisite consent to amend our 2006 senior secured credit facilities to permit, among other things: (i) future issuances of additional secured notes or loans, which may include, in each case, indebtedness secured on a pari passu basis with our obligations under the 2006 senior secured credit facilities, so long as (a) the net cash proceeds from any such issuance are used 61 table of contents to prepay term loans under the 2006 senior secured credit facilities at par until $500 million of term loans have been paid, and (b) 90% of the net cash proceeds in excess of the first $500 million from any such issuance (but all of the net cash proceeds after the first $2.0 billion) are used to prepay term loans under the 2006 senior secured credit facilities at par; and (ii) allow us to agree with lenders to extend the maturity of their term loans and revolving commitments and for us to pay increased interest rates or otherwise modify the terms of their loans in connection with such an extension (subject to certain limitations, including mandatory increases of interest rates under certain circumstances) (collectively, the amendment ). in connection with the amendment, we extended the maturity of $1.26 billion of existing term loans from august 9, 2013 to may 1, 2016. the interest rate margins of term loans that were extended were increased to 3.75%. the amendment and the subsequent extension of maturity of a portion of the existing term loans is considered a modification of our existing obligations and has been reflected as such in the audited consolidated financial statements. we recorded a charge of approximately $4 million in june 2009 as a component of other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily relating to the write-off of previously deferred debt issuance costs as a result of this modification. in december 2009, we elected to permanently repay $75 million of our existing term loans due august 2013. we entered into the following transactions during 2010: on march 9, 2010, we entered into a three-year interest swap to fix the libor-related portion of interest rates for $250 million of the our variable-rate debt at 1.69%. this swap replaced the $500 million notional amount interest rate swap that matured on february 9, 2010. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in may 2010, our 50 million variable rate emtn matured and was repaid. on august 12, 2010, we completed a term loan extension offer in accordance with the terms of our 2006 senior secured credit facilities. in connection with completing the term loan extension offer and in order to document the terms of the new class c term loans, as of such date we entered into an amendment to the 2006 senior secured credit facilities (the 2010 amendment ). pursuant to the term loan extension offer and the 2010 amendment, approximately $1,495 million of our class a term loans (which mature august 2013) and approximately $5 million of our class b term loans (which mature may 2016) were exchanged for the same principal amount of new class c term loans. the new class c term loans mature on may 1, 2016 and bear a tiered floating interest rate of libor plus a margin of (x) 3.75% to the extent that nielsen finance llc total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2006 senior secured credit facilities) is greater than 5.0 to 1.0 and (y) 3.50% to the extent that nielsen finance llc total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2006 senior secured credit facilities) is less than or equal to 5.0 to 1.0. the foregoing margins are also subject to a decrease of 0.25% in the event and for so long as nielsen finance llc corporate credit and/or family rating, as applicable, from either s&amp;p or moody is at least bb- or ba3, respectively. the class c term loans will amortize in equal quarterly installments in aggregate annual amounts equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount. no optional prepayments of class c term loans may be made so long as any class a or class b term loans are outstanding. except as set forth in the 2010 amendment, the class c term loans shall have the same terms as the class b term loans. on october 12, 2010, we issued $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2018 at an issue price of $745 million with cash proceeds of approximately $731 million, net of fees and expenses. on november 9, 2010, we issued an additional $330 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2018 at an issue price of $340 million with cash proceeds of approximately $334 million, net of fees and expenses. we used the net proceeds from the aforementioned issuances, along with cash on hand, to fund a redemption of the remaining all of our 10% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 105% and all of our 62 table of contents 9% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 104.5% in separate transactions in november and december 2010. the redemption and retirement of these notes resulted in a loss of approximately $90 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. in october and november 2010, we entered into an aggregate of $1 billion notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreements with starting dates of november 9, 2010. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.72%. the commencement date of the interest rate swaps coincided with the $1 billion notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured on november 9, 2010. additionally, on november 1, 2010 we entered into a $250 million notional amount three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of november 9, 2011, which fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 1.26%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. we elected to permanently repay $75 million of our existing term loans due august 2013 during 2010. cash flows 2010 versus 2009 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $543 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, compared to $517 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the primary driver for the increase in cash provided by operating activities was the growth in operating income excluding the impact of non-cash depreciation and amortization, partially offset by the reduction in working capital performance and higher interest payments. the reduction in working capital performance resulted primarily from an approximately $116 million reduction due to strong accounts receivable collections in 2009 and the timing of client billings. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), remained flat for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to a decrease of 5 days to 50 days for the year ended december 31, 2009. these reductions were only partially offset by the timing of employee compensation and other accruals as well as lower restructuring and tax payments. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $365 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, compared to $227 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the drivers for the increase in the usage of cash from investing activities were the increase in capital expenditures and lower proceeds from sales of subsidiaries. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $263 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, compared to $271 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. we repaid our 50 million emtn in may 2010 and repaid $295 million on our senior secured revolving credit facility in 2009 and executed numerous financing transactions in 2010 and 2009 described under the overview of financing transactions section above. cash flows 2009 versus 2008 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $517 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, compared to $317 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. the primary drivers for the increase in cash flows from operating activities were growth in operating income excluding the impact of non-cash depreciation and amortization and impairment charges. this growth was further driven by improved working capital performance, offset slightly by an increase in tax payments. the improved working capital performance primarily resulted from a benefit of approximately $149 million relating to improvement in year-over-year accounts receivable collections as well as lower bonus payments. our dbo decreased by five days to 50 days during the year ended december 31, 2009 compared to an increase of four days to 55 days during the year ended december 31, 2008. 63 table of contents investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $227 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, compared to $591 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. the lower net cash usage was primarily driven by lower acquisition payments as a result of our acquisition of iag in may 2008 as well as lower capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of divestitures in 2009, primarily resulting from the sale of the media properties within our publications operating segment in december 2009. financing activities . for the year ended december 31, 2009, we had net cash used in financing activities of $271 million as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $367 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. the comparative use of cash was mainly driven by our repayments of $295 million on our revolving credit facility in 2009 as compared to net borrowings of $285 million in 2008 as well as the results of the financing transactions described above under the overview of financing transactions section above. capital expenditures investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $334 million, $282 million and $370 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the increase in capital expenditures in 2010 as compared to 2009 related to significant investments in technology infrastructure development. the decrease in capital spending in 2009 versus 2008 was due to a reduction in lpm spending as well as the substantial completion of other key investments in 2008 and early 2009 such as our rollout of the lpm, active/passive meter and the expansion of the national people meter as well as the data factory systems in u.s. and europe. covenant ebitda attributable to tnc b.v. our 2006 senior secured credit facilities contain a covenant that requires our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries, to maintain a maximum ratio of consolidated total net debt, excluding certain tnc b.v. net debt, to covenant ebitda, calculated for the trailing four quarters (as determined under our 2006 senior secured credit facilities). currently, the maximum ratio is 7.5 to 1.0, with such maximum ratio declining over time to 6.25 to 1.0 for periods after october 1, 2012. in addition, our 2006 senior secured credit facilities contain a covenant that requires nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries to maintain a minimum ratio of covenant ebitda to consolidated interest expense, including interest expense relating to tnc b.v., calculated for the trailing four quarters (as determined under our 2006 senior secured credit facilities). currently, the minimum ratio is 1.75 to 1.0, with such minimum ratio varying between 1.75 and 1.0 to 1.50 to 1.0 for subsequent periods. failure to comply with either of these covenants would result in an event of default under our 2006 senior secured credit facilities unless waived by our senior credit lenders. an event of default under our senior credit facility can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facility, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. as our failure to comply with the covenants described above can cause us to go into default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our 2006 senior secured credit facilities and these covenants are material to us. as of december 31, 2010, we were in compliance with the covenants described above. we also measure the ratio of secured net debt to covenant ebitda, as it impacts the applicable borrowing margin under our senior secured term loans due 2013. during periods when the ratio is less than 4.25 to 1.0, the applicable margin is 25 basis points lower than it would be otherwise. as of december 31, 2010, this ratio was less than 4.25 to 1.0. covenant earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( covenant ebitda ) is a non-gaap measure used to determine our compliance with certain covenants contained in our senior secured credit facilities. covenant ebitda is defined in our 2006 senior secured credit facilities as net income/(loss) 64 table of contents from continuing operations for tnc b.v., as adjusted for the items summarized in the table below. covenant ebitda is not a presentation made in accordance with gaap, and our use of the term covenant ebitda varies from others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. covenant ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. covenant ebitda has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. because of these limitations we rely primarily on our gaap results. however, we believe that the inclusion of supplementary adjustments to ebitda applied in presenting covenant ebitda is appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate compliance with our financing covenants. the following is a reconciliation of tnc b.v. income from continuing operations, for the twelve months ended december 31, 2010, to covenant ebitda as defined above under our 2006 senior secured credit facilities: covenant ebitda (unaudited) (in millions) twelve months ended december 31, 2010 income from continuing operations $ 153 interest expense, net 655 benefit for income taxes (46 ) depreciation and amortization 558 ebitda 1,320 non-cash charges 18 unusual or non-recurring items (1) 5 restructuring charges and business optimization costs 79 sponsor monitoring fees 12 other (2) 6 covenant ebitda $ 1,440 credit statistics: net debt, including tnc b.v. net debt (3) $ 8,157 less: unsecured debenture loans 3,439 less: other unsecured net debt 5 secured net debt $ 4,713 net debt, excluding $426 million (at december 31, 2010) of tnc b.v. net debt $ 7,731 ratio of secured net debt to covenant ebitda 3.27 ratio of net debt (excluding net debt of tnc b.v.) to covenant ebitda 5.37 consolidated interest expense, including tnc b.v. interest expense (4) $ 492 ratio of covenant ebitda to consolidated interest expense, including tnc b.v. interest expense 2.93 65 table of contents (1) unusual or non-recurring items include (amounts in millions): twelve months ended december 31, 2010 currency exchange rate differences on financial transactions and other losses, net $ (54 ) loss on derivative instruments 27 duplicative running costs 16 u.s. listing costs/consulting fees 4 other 12 total $ 5 (2) these adjustments include the pro forma ebitda impact of businesses that were acquired or divested during the last twelve months, loss on sale of fixed assets, dividends received from affiliates, equity in net income of affiliates, and the exclusion of covenant ebitda attributable to unrestricted subsidiaries. (3) net debt, including net debt of tnc b.v., is not a defined term under gaap. net debt is calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2010 excluding a contractual $10 million threshold and cash and cash equivalents of unrestricted subsidiaries of $7 million. (4) consolidated interest expense is not a defined term under gaap. consolidated interest expense for any period is defined in our senior secured credit facilities as the sum of (i) the cash interest expense of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its subsidiaries with respect to all outstanding indebtedness, including all commissions, discounts and other fees and charges owed with respect to letters of credit and bankers acceptance and net costs under swap contracts, net of cash interest income, and (ii) any cash payments in respect of the accretion or accrual of discounted liabilities during such period related to borrowed money (with a maturity of more than one year) that were amortized or accrued in a previous period, excluding, in each case, however, among other things, the amortization of deferred financing costs and any other amounts of non-cash interest, the accretion or accrual of discounted liabilities during such period, commissions, discounts, yield and other fees and charges incurred in connection with certain permitted receivables financing and all non-recurring cash interest expense consisting of liquidated damages for failure to timely comply with registration rights obligations and financing fees. see liquidity and capital resources for further information on our indebtedness and covenants. transactions with related parties we recorded $12 million, $12 million and $11 million, respectively, in sg&amp;a related to management fees payable to the sponsors under advisory agreements, sponsor travel and consulting for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. from the date of acquisition through december 31, 2010, we have paid $53 million in these fees to the sponsors. in january 2011 in conjunction with our initial public offering of common stock, the advisory agreements with the sponsors were terminated for a settlement amount of $102 million. in may 2006, luxco, our direct parent, executed a loan agreement with us for principal amount euro 500 million in conjunction with the acquisition. the loan accreted interest at 10% per annum and was payable annually at the request of luxco or nielsen. if interest was not paid at the end of each year, such interest was deemed capitalized. no interest was paid on this loan through december 31, 2008 and the corresponding carrying value at such date, including capitalized interest, was $892 million. in january 2009, the loan agreement was terminated and the underlying carrying value, including accrued interest, was capitalized by luxco in exchange for 48,958,043 shares in our common stock. we recorded $3 million and $86 million in interest expense associated with this loan for the year ended december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 66 table of contents we have periodically extended loans to luxco to permit luxco to pay certain operational expenses and to fund share repurchases. the full principal amount of and accrued interest on each such loan is payable at maturity, which is generally one year or less from incurrence. the rate of interest on these loans has ranged from 3.47% to 7.7%. at december 31, 2009, approximately $4 million of principal amount of loans to luxco were outstanding. on september 30, 2010 and in conjunction with the special dividend declared to all of our existing stockholders, the approximately $5 million in outstanding loans from luxco were settled. a portion of the borrowings under our senior secured credit facility as well as certain of our senior debenture loans have been purchased by certain of the sponsors in market transactions not involving us. based on information made available to us, amounts held by the sponsors and their affiliates were $599 million and $554 million as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. interest expense associated with amounts held by the sponsors and their affiliates approximated $29 million, $16 million and $22 million during the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. at december 31, 2010, $564 million of the senior secured credit facilities and $35 million of senior debenture loans were held by the sponsors and their affiliates. of the $599 million of debt held by the sponsors and their affiliates, kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. and their affiliates held $258 million, the blackstone group and their affiliates held $204 million and the carlyle group and their affiliates held $137 million. the sponsors, their subsidiaries, affiliates and controlling stockholders may, from time to time, depending on market conditions, seek to purchase debt securities issued by nielsen or its subsidiaries or affiliates in open market or privately negotiated transactions or by other means. we make no undertaking to disclose any such transactions except as may be required by applicable laws and regulations. effective january 1, 2009, we entered into an employer health program arrangement with equity healthcare llc ( equity healthcare ). equity healthcare negotiates with providers of standard administrative services for health benefit plans and other related services for cost discounts, quality of service monitoring, data services and clinical consulting and oversight by equity healthcare. because of the combined purchasing power of its client participants, equity healthcare is able to negotiate pricing terms from providers that are believed to be more favorable than the companies could obtain for themselves on an individual basis. equity healthcare is an affiliate of the blackstone group, one of our sponsors. in consideration for equity healthcare provision of access to these favorable arrangements and its monitoring of the contracted third parties delivery of contracted services to us, we pay equity healthcare a fee of $2 per participating employee per month ( pepm fee ). as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately 8,000 employees enrolled in our self-insured health benefit plans in the united states. equity healthcare may also receive a fee ( health plan fees ) from one or more of the health plans with whom equity healthcare has contractual arrangements if the total number of employees joining such health plans from participating companies exceeds specified thresholds. commitments and contingencies outsourced services agreements on february 19, 2008, we amended and restated our master services agreement dated june 16, 2004 ( msa ), with tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (jointly tcs ). the term of the amended and restated msa is for ten years, effective october 1, 2007; with a one year renewal option granted to us, during which ten year period (or if we exercise our renewal option, eleven year period) we have committed to purchase at least $1 billion in services from tcs. unless mutually agreed, the payment rates for services under the amended and restated msa are not subject to adjustment due to inflation or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. tcs will provide us with information technology, applications development and maintenance and business process outsourcing services globally. the amount of the purchase commitment may be reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the agreement. 67 table of contents in addition, in 2008, we entered into an agreement with tcs to outsource our global it infrastructure services. the agreement has an initial term of seven years, and provides for tcs to manage our infrastructure costs at an agreed upon level and to provide nielsen infrastructure services globally for an annual service charge of $39 million per year, which applies towards the satisfaction of our aforementioned purchased services commitment with tcs of at least $1 billion over the term of the amended and restated msa. the agreement is subject to earlier termination under certain limited conditions. other contractual obligations . our other contractual obligations include capital lease obligations, facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal on debt and pension fund obligations. at december 31, 2010, the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2010, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. therefore, $139 million of unrecognized tax benefits (which includes interest and penalties of $25 million) have been excluded from the contractual obligations table below. see note 13 income taxes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. payments due by period (in millions) total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter capital lease obligations and other debt (a) $ 212 $ 27 $ 19 $ 19 $ 15 $ 15 $ 117 operating leases (b) 389 98 77 59 50 35 70 other contractual obligations (c) 739 340 274 113 11 1 long-term debt, including current portion (a) 6,728 78 136 1,791 227 27 4,469 interest (d) 2,075 432 384 337 286 270 366 pension fund obligations (e) 46 46 total $ 10,189 $ 1,021 $ 890 $ 2,319 $ 589 $ 348 $ 5,022 (a) our short-term and long-term debt obligations, including capital lease and other financing obligations, are described in note 10 long-term debt and other financing arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. other debt includes bank overdrafts of $8 million due within one year. these amounts have been adjusted to reflect the subsequent events described in note 19 subsequent events. the $288 million of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds due february 1, 2013 has been excluded as these bonds will convert into shares of our common stock upon maturity and will not result in a cash payment of principal. (b) our operating lease obligations are described in note 15 commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. (c) other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreement, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. we generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. the amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. our remaining commitments under the outsourced services agreements with tcs have been included above on an estimated basis over the years within the contractual period in which we expect to satisfy our obligations. (d) interest payments consist of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. see note 10 long-term debt and other financing arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. these amounts have been adjusted to reflect the subsequent events described in note 19 subsequent events. interest payments associated with the $288 million of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds due february 1, 2013 have been included as it is assumed such payments will be made in cash. 68 table of contents (e) our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $30 million, $44 million and $49 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. future pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2011. see note 9 pensions and other post-retirement benefits to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations. guarantees and other contingent commitments at december 31, 2010, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements: sub-lease guarantees. we provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. to date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded. letters of credit. letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $20 million at december 31, 2010. legal proceedings and contingencies. in addition to the legal proceedings described below and in note 15 commitments and contingencies to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this form 10-k, we are subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. while the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we do expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. however, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. sunbeam television corp. sunbeam television corp. ( sunbeam ) filed a lawsuit in federal district court in miami, florida on april 30, 2009. the lawsuit alleged that nielsen media research, inc. violated federal and florida state antitrust laws and florida unfair trade practices laws by attempting to maintain a monopoly and abuse its position in the market, and breached its contract with sunbeam by producing defective ratings data through its sampling methodology. the complaint did not specify the amount of damages sought and also sought declaratory and equitable relief. on january 13, 2011 the u.s. district court in the southern district of florida dismissed all federal and state antitrust claims brought against nielsen by sunbeam stating that sunbeam failed to show that any competitor was willing and able to enter the local television ratings market in miami and was excluded from that market by nielsen. the court also determined that sunbeam could not prove that the current ratings for sunbeam local station wsvn are less accurate than they would be under a prospective competitor methodology. the court deferred ruling on the remaining ancillary claims, including breach of contract and violation of florida deceptive and unfair trade practices act. subsequent to the court decision, sunbeam voluntarily dismissed with prejudice the remaining claims in the case so that all claims have been dismissed. sunbeam has appealed the court dismissal of the antitrust claims. off-balance sheet arrangements except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources. summary of recent accounting pronouncements business combinations in december 2007, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued a revised standard for accounting for business combinations, which was effective for fiscal years beginning on or after december 15, 69 table of contents 2008 and applies to all business combinations. the standard provides that, upon initially obtaining control, an acquirer shall recognize 100 percent of the fair values of acquired assets, including goodwill, and assumed liabilities, with only limited exceptions, even if the acquirer has not acquired 100 percent of its target. as a consequence, the prior step acquisition model was eliminated. additionally, the standard changed prior practice, in part, as follows: (i) contingent consideration arrangements are fair valued at the acquisition date and included on that basis in the purchase price consideration; (ii) transaction costs are expensed as incurred, rather than capitalized as part of the purchase price; (iii) pre-acquisition contingencies, such as those relating to legal matters, are generally accounted for in purchase accounting at fair value; (iv) in order to accrue for a restructuring plan in purchase accounting, the requirements for accounting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities have to be met at the acquisition date; and (v) changes to valuation allowances for deferred income tax assets and adjustments to unrecognized tax benefits generally are recognized as adjustments to income tax expense rather than goodwill. we adopted the new standard effective january 1, 2009 and such adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. fair value measurements in january 2010, the fasb issued updates to its fair value measurement standards that require entities to provide new disclosures and clarify existing disclosures relating to fair value measurements. the new disclosures and clarifications of existing disclosures are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after december 15, 2009, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in level 3 fair value measurements, which are effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2010. we do not currently have fair value measurements within the level 3 category and therefore the adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. in addition, effective january 1, 2009, we adopted the standard for all non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. the required fair value disclosures are included in note 7, fair value measurements. changes in the consolidation model for variable interest entities in june 2009, the fasb issued an update that amends the consolidation guidance applicable to variable interest entities ( vie ) and changes how a reporting entity evaluates whether an entity is considered the primary beneficiary of a vie and is therefore required to consolidate such vie and will also require assessments at each reporting period of which party within the vie is considered the primary beneficiary and will require a number of new disclosures. these updates are effective for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2009. the adoption of this guidance, effective january 1, 2010, did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. revenue recognition in october 2009, the fasb issued updates to its accounting standards pertaining to multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements requiring entities to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy. the guidance eliminates the residual method of revenue allocation and requires revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method and is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after june 15, 2010. we have evaluated the impact of the revised accounting standard and do not believe it will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. we actively monitor these 70 table of contents exposures. historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. our objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. it is our policy not to trade in financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate globally and we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure. foreign currency translation risk is the risk that exchange rate gains or losses arise from translating foreign entities statements of earnings and balance sheets from functional currency to our reporting currency (the u.s. dollar) for consolidation purposes. translation risk exposure is managed by creating natural hedges in our financing or by using derivative financial instruments aimed at offsetting certain exposures in the statement of earnings or the balance sheet. we do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. the table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the year ended december 31, 2010 and the year ended december 31, 2009: u.s. dollars euro other currencies year ended december 31, 2010 revenues 52 % 14 % 34 % operating costs 53 % 14 % 33 % year ended december 31, 2009 revenues 53 % 16 % 31 % operating costs 59 % 15 % 26 % based on the year ended december 31, 2010, a one cent change in the u.s. dollar/euro exchange rate will impact revenues by approximately $7 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income. we have operations in both our buy and watch segments in venezuela and our functional currency for these operations is the venezuelan bolivares fuertes. venezuela currency was considered hyperinflationary as of january 1, 2010 and further, in january 2010, venezuela currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate system was announced. we have evaluated the new exchange rate system and have concluded that our local currency transactions will be denominated in u.s. dollars until venezuela currency is deemed to be non hyperinflationary. we recorded a charge of $7 million associated with the currency devaluation in january 2010 in our foreign exchange transaction gains, net line item. in june 2010, a further revision to the currency exchange rate system was made and in december 2010, the government of venezuela announced that it is eliminating the preferential exchange rate. neither the impact of the hyperinflationary accounting or the subsequent changes to the exchange rate system had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2010 nor are they expected to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements prospectively. effective july 1, 2010, we designated our euro denominated variable rate senior secured term loans due 2013 and 2016 as non-derivative hedges of our net investment in a european subsidiary. beginning on july 1, 2010, gains or losses attributable to fluctuations in the euro as compared to the u.s. dollar associated with this debenture were recorded to currency translation adjustment within stockholders equity, net of income tax. we recorded losses of $43 million (net of tax of $17 million) to currency translation adjustment during the 71 table of contents second half of 2010 associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates attributable to these loans and therefore no gains or losses were recorded within our net income/(loss) during that period. our net income/(loss) reflected foreign currency exchange gains of $96 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, losses of $21 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 and gains of $38 million for the year ended december 31, 2008 associated with these loans. interest rate risk we continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerations in the u.s. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. at december 31, 2010, we had $4,547 million in carrying value of floating-rate debt under our 2006 senior secured credit facilities and our emtn floating rate notes. a one percentage point increase in these floating rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $45 million. in february 2009, we modified the reset interest rate underlying our $4,525 million senior secured term loan in order to achieve additional economic interest benefit and, as a result, all related floating-to-fixed interest rate swap derivative financial instruments became ineffective. all changes in fair value of the affected interest rate swaps are reflected as a component of derivative gains and losses within our consolidated statement of operations. in october and november 2010, we entered into an aggregate of $1 billion notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreements with starting dates of november 9, 2010. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.72%. the commencement date of the interest rate swaps coincides with the $1 billion notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured on november 9, 2010. additionally, on november 1, 2010, we entered into a $250 million notional amount three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of november 9, 2011, which fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 1.26%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. on march 9, 2010, we entered into a three-year interest swap to fix the libor-related portion of interest rates for $250 million of our variable-rate debt at 1.69%. this swap replaced the $500 million notional amount interest rate swap that matured on february 9, 2010. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in february 2009, we entered into two three-year forward interest rate swap agreements with starting dates of november 9, 2009. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates for $500 million of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 2.47%. the commencement date of the interest rate swaps coincided with the $1 billion notional amount interest rate swap that matured on november 9, 2009. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. we do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transactions were executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties. 72 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors the risks described below are not the only risks facing us. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our business we may be unable to adapt to significant technological change which could adversely affect our business. we operate in businesses that require sophisticated data collection, processing systems, software and other technology. some of the technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly. we will be required to adapt to changing technologies, either by developing and marketing new services or by enhancing our existing services, to meet client demand. moreover, the introduction of new services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render existing services obsolete. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies, manage and process ever-increasing amounts of data and information and improve the performance, features and reliability of our existing services in response to changing client and industry demands. we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction or marketing of our services. new services, or enhancements to existing services, may not adequately meet the requirements of current and prospective clients or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. traditional methods of television viewing are changing as a result of fragmentation of channels and digital and other new television technologies, such as video-on-demand, digital video recorders and internet viewing. if we are unable to continue to successfully adapt our media measurement systems to new viewing habits, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. consolidation in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries could put pressure on the pricing of our services, thereby leading to decreased earnings. consolidation in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries could reduce aggregate demand for our services in the future and could limit the amounts we earn for our services. when companies merge, the services they previously purchased separately are often purchased by the combined entity in the aggregate in a lesser quantity than before, leading to volume compression and loss of revenue. while we attempt to mitigate the revenue impact of any consolidation by expanding our range of services, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we will be able to do so as industry consolidation continues, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. client procurement strategies could put additional pressure on the pricing of our information services, thereby leading to decreased earnings. certain of our clients may continue to seek further price concessions from us. this puts pressure on the pricing of our information services, which could limit the amounts we earn. while we attempt to mitigate the revenue impact of any pricing pressure through effective negotiations and by providing services to individual businesses within particular groups, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we will be able to do so, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. continued adverse market conditions, particularly in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications or technology industries in particular, could adversely impact our revenue. a number of adverse financial developments continue to impact the u.s. and global financial markets. these developments include a significant economic deterioration both in the united states and globally, 14 table of contents volatility and deterioration in the equity markets, and deterioration and tightening of liquidity in the credit markets. in addition, issues related to sovereign debt in europe recently have negatively affected the global financial markets. the current economic environment has witnessed a significant reduction in consumer confidence and demand, impacting the demand for our customers products and services. those reductions could adversely affect the ability of some of our customers to meet their current obligations to us and hinder their ability to incur new obligations until the economy and their businesses strengthen. the inability of our customers to pay us for our services and/or decisions by current or future customers to forego or defer purchases may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, profitability and cash flows and may continue to present risks for an extended period of time. we cannot predict the impact of economic slowdowns on our future financial performance. we expect that revenues generated from our information and insights services will continue to represent a substantial portion of our overall revenue for the foreseeable future. to the extent the businesses we service, especially our clients in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries, are subject to the financial pressures of, for example, increased costs or reduced demand for their products, the demand for our services, or the prices our clients are willing to pay for those services, may decline. during challenging economic times, clients, typically advertisers, within our buy segment may reduce their discretionary advertising expenditures and may be less likely to purchase our analytical services. clients within our watch segment derive a significant amount of their revenue from the sale or purchase of advertising. during challenging economic times, advertisers may reduce advertising expenditures and advertising agencies and other media may be less likely to purchase our media information services. revenues within our expositions segment are primarily derived from business-to-business trade shows and events. during challenging economic times exhibitors may cut back on attending our events which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. we have suffered losses due to goodwill impairment charges and could do so again in the future. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual review for impairment (or more frequently should indications of impairment arise). in addition, other intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. economic volatility negatively impacted our financial results and, as a direct result, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $282 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 (as well as $55 million in 2009, relating to discontinued operations) and $245 million of intangible asset impairment charges for the year ended december 31, 2009. as of december 31, 2011, we had goodwill and intangible assets of approximately $11.7 billion. any further downward revisions in the fair value of our reporting units or our intangible assets could result in further impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets that could materially affect our financial performance. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. we have now and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2011, we had total indebtedness of $6,763 million (including $288 million of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds due 2013). furthermore, the interest payments on our indebtedness could reduce the availability of our cash flow. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to the current general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, service development efforts and other general corporate purposes; 15 table of contents limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, service development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. in addition, the indentures governing our outstanding notes and our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit the ability of our operating subsidiaries to engage in activities that may be in our best interests in the long term. the failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. this could further increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. if new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash as well as continued access to the capital markets. our ability to generate cash and our access to the capital markets depend on many factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and product development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future and our ability to refinance our indebtedness. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. our cash interest expense for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $446 million, $531 million and $495 million, respectively. at december 31, 2011, we had $4,221 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities and our existing floating rate notes of which $2,537 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. a one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $17 million ($42 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the success of our business depends on our ability to recruit sample participants to participate in our research samples. our business uses scanners and diaries to gather consumer data from sample households as well as set meters, people meters, active/passive meters and diaries to gather television audience measurement data from sample households. it is increasingly difficult and costly to obtain consent from households to participate in the surveys. in addition, it is increasingly difficult and costly to ensure that the selected sample of households mirrors the behaviors and characteristics of the entire population and covers all of the demographic segments requested by our clients. additionally, as consumers adopt modes of telecommunication other than traditional telephone service, such as mobile, cable and internet calling, it may become more difficult for our services to 16 table of contents reach and recruit participants for consumer purchasing and audience measurement services. if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to recruit appropriate participants and maintain adequate participation levels, our clients may lose confidence in our ratings services and we could lose the support of the relevant industry groups. if this were to happen, our consumer purchasing and audience measurement services may be materially and adversely affected. data protection laws may restrict our activities and increase our costs. various statutes and rules regulate conduct in areas such as privacy and data protection which may affect our collection, use, storage and transfer of personally identifiable information both abroad and in the united states. compliance with these laws may require us to make certain investments or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services or only offer such services after making necessary modifications. failure to comply with these laws may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, data being blocked from use and liability under contractual warranties. in addition, there is an increasing public concern regarding data and consumer protection issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection laws has been slowly increasing. there is also the possibility that the scope of existing privacy laws may be expanded. for example, several countries including the united states have regulations that restrict telemarketing to individuals who request to be included on a do-not-call list. typically, these regulations target sales activity and do not apply to survey research. if the laws were extended to include survey research, our ability to recruit research participants could be adversely affected. these or future initiatives may adversely affect our ability to generate or assemble data or to develop or market current or future services, which could negatively impact our business. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. the success of our business will depend, in part, on: obtaining patent protection for our technology and services; defending our patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property; preserving our trade secrets and maintaining the security of our know-how and data; and operating our business without infringing upon intellectual property rights held by third parties. we rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and the patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws of the united states and other countries to protect our intellectual property. these legal measures afford only limited protection and may not provide sufficient protection to prevent the infringement, misuse or misappropriation of our intellectual property. intellectual property law in several foreign jurisdictions is subject to considerable uncertainty. there can be no assurances that the protections we have available for our proprietary technology in the united states and other countries will be available to us in all of the places we sell our services. any infringement or misappropriation of our technology can have a negative impact on our business. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. the expiration of our patents may lead to increased competition. although our employees, consultants, clients and collaborators enter into confidentiality agreements with us, our trade secrets, data and know-how could be subject to unauthorized use, misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure. the growing need for global data, along with increased competition and technological advances, puts increasing pressure on us to share our intellectual property for client applications with others, which could result in infringement. competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. our trademarks could be challenged, which could force us to rebrand our services, result in a loss of brand recognition and require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. given the importance of our intellectual property, we will enforce our rights whenever it is necessary and prudent to do so. any future litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial expense and diversion of time and attention of management, may not be resolved in our favor and could adversely affect our business. 17 table of contents if third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, our operating profits could be adversely affected. we cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others in operating our business. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims that we have infringed third parties intellectual property rights. any such claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; result in our being required to pay possibly significant damages; cause us to cease providing our services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or rebrand our services; divert management attention and resources; or require us to enter into potentially costly royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party intellectual property, although royalty or licensing agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. any of the above could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects and financial condition. we generate revenues throughout the world which are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, and our revenue and net income may suffer due to currency translations. we operate globally, deriving approximately 50% of revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011 in currencies other than u.s. dollars. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars, while our european operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in euros, which have recently been subject to significant volatility. outside the united states and the european union, we generate revenue and expenses predominantly in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to economic exposure. in certain instances, we may not be able to freely convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars due to limitations placed on such conversions. certain of the countries in which we operate, such as venezuela, have currencies which are considered to be hyperinflationary. this risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our international operations are exposed to risks which could impede growth in the future. we continue to explore opportunities in major international markets around the world, including china, russia, india and brazil. international operations expose us to various additional risks, which could adversely affect our business, including: costs of customizing services for clients outside of the united states; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; difficulties in managing international operations; longer sales and payment cycles; exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; exposure to local economic conditions; exposure to local political conditions, including adverse tax policies, civil unrest and seizure of assets by a foreign government; and 18 table of contents the risks of an outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism in the jurisdictions in which we operate. in countries where there has not been a historical practice of using consumer packaged goods retail information or audience measurement information in the buying and selling of advertising time, it may be difficult for us to maintain subscribers. criticism of our audience measurement service by various industry groups and market segments could adversely affect our business. due to the high-profile nature of our services in the media, internet and entertainment information industries, we could become the target of criticism by various industry groups and market segments. we strive to be fair, transparent and impartial in the production of audience measurement services, and the quality of our u.s. ratings services are voluntarily subject to review and accreditation by the media rating council, a voluntary trade organization, whose members include many of our key client constituencies. however, criticism of our business by special interests, and by clients with competing and often conflicting demands on our measurement service, could result in government regulation. while we believe that government regulation is unnecessary, no assurance can be given that legislation will not be enacted in the future that would subject our business to regulation, which could adversely affect our business. a loss of one of our largest clients could adversely impact our results of operations. our top ten clients accounted for approximately 24% of our total revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011. we cannot assure you that any of our clients will continue to use our services to the same extent, or at all, in the future. a loss of one or more of our largest clients, if not replaced by a new client or an increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on third parties to provide certain data and services in connection with the provision of our current services. we rely on third parties to provide certain data and services for use in connection with the provision of our current services. for example, our buy segment enters into agreements with third parties (primarily retailers of fast-moving consumer goods) to obtain the raw data on retail product sales it processes and edits and from which it creates products and services. these suppliers of data may increase restrictions on our use of such data, fail to adhere to our quality control standards, increase the price they charge us for this data or refuse altogether to license the data to us. in addition, we may need to enter into agreements with third parties to assist with the marketing, technical and financial aspects of expanding our services for other types of media. in the event we are unable to use such third party data and services or if we are unable to enter into agreements with third parties, when necessary, our business and/or our potential growth could be adversely affected. in the event that such data and services are unavailable for our use or the cost of acquiring such data and services increases, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on a third party for the performance of a significant portion of our worldwide information technology and operations functions, various services and assistance in certain integration projects. a failure to provide these functions, services or assistance in a satisfactory manner could have an adverse effect on our business. pursuant to the terms of a ten year agreement, effective february 2008, we are dependent upon tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (collectively, tcs ) for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology and operations functions worldwide, the provision of a broad suite of information technology and business process services, including general and process consulting, product engineering, program management, application development and maintenance, coding, data management, finance and accounting services and human resource services, as well as assistance in integrating 19 table of contents and centralizing multiple systems, technologies and processes on a global scale. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with tcs and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. long term disruptions in the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and/or air service could adversely affect our business. our business is dependent on the use of the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and air service. long term disruptions in one or more of these services, which could be caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, civil unrest and/or acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. hardware and software failures, delays in the operation of our computer and communications systems or the failure to implement system enhancements may harm our business. our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. a failure of our network or data gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, client orders and day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. while many of our services have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place, we currently do not have full backup facilities everywhere in the world to provide redundant network capacity in the event of a system failure. despite any precautions we may take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. in addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. in the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. such a transfer could result in significant delays in our ability to deliver our services to our clients and could be costly to implement. additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements and improvements, or inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed, could damage our reputation and harm our business. finally, long-term disruptions in infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, civil unrest and/or acts of terrorism (particularly involving cities in which we have offices) could adversely affect our services. although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. the presence of our global technology and information center in florida heightens our exposure to hurricanes and tropical storms, which could disrupt our business. the technological data processing functions for certain of our u.s. operations are concentrated at our global technology and information center ( gtic ) at a single location in florida. our geographic concentration in florida heightens our exposure to a hurricane or tropical storm. these weather events could cause severe damage to our property and technology and could cause major disruptions to our operations. although our gtic was built in anticipation of severe weather events and we have insurance coverage, if we were to experience a catastrophic loss, we may exceed our policy limits and/or we may have difficulty obtaining similar insurance coverage in the future. as such, a hurricane or tropical storm could have an adverse effect on our business. our services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained, our services may be perceived as not being secure and panelists and survey respondents may hold us liable for disclosure of personal data, and clients and venture partners may hold us liable or reduce their use of our services. we store and transmit large volumes of proprietary information and data that contains personally identifiable information about individuals. security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, 20 table of contents litigation and possible liability and our reputation could be damaged. for example, hackers or individuals who attempt to breach our network security could, if successful, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. if we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate problems. we may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or saboteurs in a timely manner, or at all. techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target and, as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose current and potential clients. if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate employees, we may not be able to compete effectively and will not be able to expand our business. our success and ability to grow are dependent, in part, on our ability to hire, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of talented people, with the increasingly diverse skills needed to serve clients and expand our business, in many locations around the world. competition for highly qualified, specialized technical and managerial, and particularly consulting personnel is intense. recruiting, training and retention costs and benefits place significant demands on our resources. the inability to attract qualified employees in sufficient numbers to meet particular demands or the loss of a significant number of our employees could have an adverse effect on us, including our ability to obtain and successfully complete important client engagements and thus maintain or increase our revenues. changes in tax laws may adversely affect our reported results. changes in tax laws, regulations, related interpretations and tax accounting standards in the united states, the netherlands and other countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial results. for example, recent legislative proposals to reform u.s. taxation of non-u.s. earnings could have a material adverse effect on our financial results by subjecting a significant portion of our non-u.s. earnings to incremental u.s. taxation and/or by delaying or permanently deferring certain deductions otherwise allowed in calculating our u.s. tax liabilities. in addition, governments are increasingly considering tax law changes as a means to cover budgetary shortfalls resulting from the current economic environment. we face competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we are faced with a number of competitors in the markets in which we operate. some of our competitors in each market may have substantially greater financial marketing and other resources than we do and may in the future engage in aggressive pricing action to compete with us. although we believe we are currently able to compete effectively in each of the various markets in which we participate, we may not be able to do so in the future or be capable of maintaining or further increasing our current market share. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we may be subject to antitrust litigation or government investigation in the future, which may result in an award of money damages or force us to change the way we do business. in the past, certain of our business practices have been investigated by government antitrust or competition agencies, and we have on several occasions been sued by private parties for alleged violations of the antitrust and competition laws of various jurisdictions. following some of these actions, we have changed certain of our business practices to reduce the likelihood of future litigation. although each of these material prior legal actions have been resolved, there is a risk based upon the leading position of certain of our business operations that we could, in the future, be the target of investigations by government entities or actions by private parties challenging the legality of our business practices. also, in markets where the retail trade is concentrated, 21 table of contents regulatory authorities may perceive certain of our retail services as potential vehicles for collusive behavior by retailers or manufacturers. there can be no assurance that any such investigation or challenge will not result in an award of money damages, penalties or some form of order that might require a change in the way that we do business, any of which could adversely affect our revenue stream and/or profitability. the use of joint ventures, over which we do not have full control, could prevent us from achieving our objectives. we have conducted and will continue to conduct a number of business initiatives through joint ventures, some of which are or may be controlled by others. our joint venture partners might have economic or business objectives that are inconsistent with our objectives. our joint venture partners could go bankrupt, leaving us liable for their share of joint venture liabilities. although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. also, our joint venture partners could take appropriate actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. in addition, the terms of our joint venture agreements may limit our business opportunities. accordingly, the use of joint ventures could prevent us from achieving our intended objectives. failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions into our existing operations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we regularly evaluate opportunities for strategic growth through tuck-in acquisitions. potential issues associated with these acquisitions could include, among other things, our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of the acquisition within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with the acquisition; diversion of management attention from base strategies and objectives; and, with respect to acquisitions, our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized, including sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems among our company and the acquired company, motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees, conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company, consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures, consolidating sales and marketing operations, retaining existing customers and attracting new customers, identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets, coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the acquisitions. in addition, acquisitions outside of the united states, increase our exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and compliance with foreign laws and regulations. if an acquisition is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in countries with currencies other than the u.s. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates; revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.39 to 1.00, $1.33 to 1.00 and $1.39 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations. we have operations in both our buy and watch segments in venezuela and our functional currency for these operations was the venezuelan bolivares fuertes. venezuela currency was considered hyperinflationary as of january 1, 2010 and further, in january 2010, venezuela currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate system was announced. we evaluated the new exchange rate system and concluded that our local currency transactions will be denominated in u.s. dollars effective as of january 1, 2010 and until venezuela currency is deemed to be non hyperinflationary. we recorded a charge of $7 million associated with the currency devaluation in january 2010 in our foreign exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net line item in the consolidated statement of operations. in june 2010, a further revision to the currency exchange rate system was made and in december 2010, the government of venezuela eliminated the preferential exchange rate. neither the impact of the hyperinflationary accounting or the subsequent changes to the exchange rate system had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations for the years ended december 31, 2011 or 2010, nor are they expected to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements prospectively. we evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. the constant currency presentation is a non-gaap financial measure, which excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, consistent with how we evaluate our performance. we calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency financial results using the current period foreign currency exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. this calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with gaap nor should such amounts be considered in isolation. 37 table of contents results of operations (years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009) the following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our consolidated statements of operations: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 revenues $ 5,532 $ 5,126 $ 4,808 cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 2,237 2,129 2,023 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,888 1,648 1,523 depreciation and amortization 529 558 557 impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 527 restructuring charges 84 61 62 operating income 794 730 116 interest income 6 5 7 interest expense (477 ) (660 ) (647 ) loss on derivative instruments (1 ) (27 ) (60 ) foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net (9 ) 136 (2 ) other expense, net (209 ) (81 ) (17 ) income/(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates 104 103 (603 ) (provision)/benefit for income taxes (22 ) 46 197 equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates 3 5 (22 ) income/(loss) from continuing operations 85 154 (428 ) income(loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 1 (22 ) (61 ) net income/(loss) 86 132 (489 ) net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 2 2 2 net income/(loss) attributable to nielsen stockholders $ 84 $ 130 $ (491 ) net income to adjusted ebitda reconciliation we define adjusted ebitda as net income/(loss) from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, stock compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items specifically described below. adjusted ebitda is not a presentation made in accordance with gaap, and our use of the term adjusted ebitda may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. we use adjusted ebitda to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. in addition to adjusted ebitda being a significant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-gaap financial information is viewed with gaap financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. 38 table of contents adjusted ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. adjusted ebitda has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. the below table presents a reconciliation from net income/(loss) to adjusted ebitda for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 net income/(loss) $ 86 $ 132 $ (489 ) (gain)/loss from discontinued operations, net (1 ) 22 61 interest expense, net 471 655 640 provision/(benefit) for income taxes 22 (46 ) (197 ) depreciation and amortization 529 558 557 ebitda 1,107 1,321 572 equity in (income)/loss of affiliates (3 ) (5 ) 22 other non-operating expense/(income), net 219 (28 ) 79 restructuring charges 84 61 62 impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 527 stock-based compensation expense 27 18 14 other items (a) 112 44 36 adjusted ebitda $ 1,546 $ 1,411 $ 1,312 (a) other items primarily consist of sponsor advisory fees (including termination payments of $102 million in 2011) of $12 million for both the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009 and $10 million of costs related to our initial public offering and other deal related fees for the year ended december 31, 2011. other items also include transformation initiative and other dual running costs of $16 million and $7 million for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. other items further include consulting and other costs of $16 million and $17 million for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with information technology infrastructure transformation and fees associated with certain consulting arrangements. the amounts for the year ended december 31, 2010 included preparatory costs for our initial public offering of common stock. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to the year ended december 31, 2010 revenues our revenues increased 7.9% to $5,532 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $5,126 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 5.6% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 2.3% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by a 9.7% increase within our buy segment (6.7% on a constant currency basis) and a 5.1% increase within our watch segment (3.8% on a constant currency basis), and a 6.5% increase in our expositions segment (6.5% on a constant currency basis). cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 5.1% to $2,237 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $2,129 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 2.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.3% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases resulted from a 9.7% increase within our buy segment (6.7% on a constant currency basis) due to the global expansion of our services. costs within our watch segment decreased 1.7% (3.2% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to productivity savings and product portfolio management initiatives in our television measurement business. corporate costs decreased by approximately $8 million in 2011 as compared to 2010 driven by certain cost savings initiatives. 39 table of contents selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative ( sg&amp;a ) expenses increased 14.6% to $1,888 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $1,648 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 11.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.8% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by an 11.4% increase within our buy segment (8.3% on a constant currency basis) due to increases in data acquisition and client service costs associated with the global expansion of our services as well as a 7.4% increase within our watch segment (5.5% on a constant currency basis) due to increased investment in cross-platform measurement initiatives. corporate costs increased by approximately $78 million primarily as a result of a $102 million charge for the termination and settlement of the sponsor advisory agreements partially offset by certain cost savings initiatives. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $529 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $558 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations decreased to $182 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $215 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 resulting from lower amortization on purchase price adjustments from the acquisition for certain software and other assets that became fully amortized. this decline was partially offset by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with additional capital expenditures and acquisitions. restructuring charges other productivity initiatives we recorded $84 million in restructuring charges associated with productivity initiatives during the year ended december 31, 2011. these amounts primarily related to severance charges associated with employee terminations. we recorded $70 million in restructuring charges associated with productivity initiatives during the year ended december 31, 2010. of these amounts, approximately $11 million related to property lease termination charges with the remainder relating to severance charges associated with employee terminations. transformation initiative the transformation initiative has been completed in all aspects as of the year ended december 31, 2011. we recorded net credits of $9 million in restructuring charges, associated with adjustments to previously established liabilities for employee severance and other benefits for the year ended december 31, 2010. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2011 was $794 million compared to operating income of $730 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. operating income of $432 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 within our buy segment increased from $414 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. operating income within our watch segment of $462 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased from $367 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. operating income within our expositions segment was $60 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $49 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. corporate operating expenses increased to $160 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $100 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. interest expense interest expense was $477 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to $660 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the decline related to the impact of debt retirements and lower interest cost on 40 table of contents derivative instruments, partially offset by increases in interest cost associated with our senior secured term loans and from the issuance of our mandatory convertible subordinated bonds. loss on derivative instruments the loss on derivative instruments was $1 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to a loss of $27 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the reduction in losses resulted from the maturity of $2.3 billion in notional amount of interest rate swaps between february 2010 and november 2011 for which hedge accounting was discontinued in february 2009. foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net, represent the net gain or loss on revaluation of external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar have a significant effect on our operating results, particularly the euro. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.39 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $1.33 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2010. foreign currency exchange resulted in a $9 million loss for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to a gain of $136 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the loss in 2011 resulted primarily from fluctuations in certain currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio and the fluctuation in japanese yen as compared to the euro applied to our japanese yen denominated debenture. the gains in 2010 resulted primarily from the fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro applied to certain of our euro-denominated senior secured term loans that were subsequently designated as net investment hedges and debentures that were subsequently retired as well as fluctuations in certain currencies including the euro and canadian dollar associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. other expense, net other expense, net of $209 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 includes charges of approximately $231 million associated with the redemption and subsequent retirement of certain indebtedness through the use of proceeds generated from our initial public offering of common stock and concurrent offering of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds. the charges related to the associated redemption premiums and recognition of previously deferred financing costs. these charges were partially offset by $10 million of other gains primarily related to an acquisition of the remaining interest of a previously nonconsolidated subsidiary and $12 million of other gains, primarily relating to the settlement of certain patent infringement matters. other expense, net of $81 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 includes net charges of approximately $90 million associated with the redemption and subsequent retirement of all $870 million aggregate principal amount of our 10.00% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 105% of the principal amount redeemed as well as all 150 million aggregate principal amount of our 9% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 104.5% of the amount redeemed. the charges related to the associated redemption premiums and recognition of previously deferred financing costs. these charges were partially offset by gains attributable to business divestitures. income/(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates income was $104 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to $103 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010 were 21% and 45% (benefit), respectively. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2011 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the favorable effect of financing activities, release of valuation allowances and the impact of the 41 table of contents tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, partially offset by withholding taxes and provision for uncertain tax positions. the effective tax rate benefit for the year ended december 31, 2010 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the favorable effect of certain foreign currency exchange gains, financing activities, release of valuation allowances and the impact of the tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, partially offset by withholding taxes. at december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $96 million and $114 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2010 of $29 million and $25 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $8 million to $19 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates equity in net income of affiliates was $3 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $5 million of income for the year ended december 31, 2010. adjusted ebitda our adjusted ebitda increased 9.6% to $1,546 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $1,411 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 7.8% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 27.95% for the year ended december 31, 2011 from 27.52% for the year ended december 31, 2010. see results of operations (years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009) for the reconciliation of net income/(loss) to adjusted ebitda. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to the year ended december 31, 2009 revenues revenues increased 6.6% to $5,126 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $4,808 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 6.1% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 0.5% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by an 8.6% increase within our buy segment (7.6% on a constant currency basis) and a 4.7% increase within our watch segment (4.6% on a constant currency basis), offset in part by a 6.6% decline in our expositions segment (6.7% on a constant currency basis). cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 5.2% to $2,129 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $2,023 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 5.0% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.2% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases resulted from a 7.5% increase within our buy segment (7.2% on a constant currency basis) due to the global expansion of our services. costs within our watch segment increased slightly due to volume while costs within our expositions segment remained flat. corporate costs increased by approximately $9 million in 2010 as compared to 2009 driven by certain infrastructure investments. 42 table of contents selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization sg&amp;a expenses increased 8.3% to $1,648 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $1,523 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 7.6% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.7% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by an 8.6% increase within our buy segment (7.3% on a constant currency basis) due to increases in client service costs associated with the global expansion of our services as well as a 13.7% increase within our watch segment (13.4% on a constant currency basis) due to increased investment in cross-platform measurement initiatives. corporate costs increased by approximately $15 million as a result of increased investment in global product initiatives, a $3 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and costs attributable to the initial public offering of our common stock consummated in january 2011. these increases were partially offset by a 36.8 % decline in our expositions segment due to the impact of cost savings initiatives. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $558 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to $557 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations decreased to $215 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $247 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 resulting from lower amortization on purchase price adjustments from the acquisition for certain software assets that became fully amortized during 2010. this decline was offset by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with higher capital expenditures. impairment of goodwill and intangible assets during 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $282 million and a non-cash intangible asset impairment charge of $245 million. these charges related to both our watch and expositions segments. a deferred tax benefit of $103 million was recognized during the period as a result of these impairment charges. restructuring charges transformation initiative we recorded net credits of $9 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 associated with adjustments to previously established liabilities for employee severance and other benefits. we recorded $33 million in restructuring charges, primarily relating to severance costs, for the year ended december 31, 2009. other productivity initiatives we recorded $70 million in restructuring charges associated with productivity initiatives during the year ended december 31, 2010. of these amounts, approximately $11 million related to property lease termination charges with the remainder relating to severance charges associated with employee terminations. we recorded $29 million in restructuring charges associated with these initiatives during the year ended december 31, 2009. the charges included severance costs of $22 million, primarily in europe as well as $7 million of contractual termination costs and asset write-offs. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2010 was $730 million compared to operating income of $116 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. operating income of $414 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 within our buy segment increased from $324 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. operating income within our watch segment was $367 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $36 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. operating income within our expositions segment 43 table of contents was $49 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to a loss of $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. corporate operating expenses increased to $100 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $67 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. interest expense interest expense was $660 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to $647 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, as increases in interest costs on debentures and our senior secured term loans were only partially offset by lower interest costs on derivative instruments. loss on derivative instruments the loss on derivative instruments was $27 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $60 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the reduction in losses resulted from movements in the euro relative to the u.s. dollar associated with a foreign currency swap derivative instrument, which was terminated in march 2009 as well as the maturity of $2.5 billion in notional amount of interest rate swaps between november 2009 and november 2010 for which hedge accounting was discontinued in february 2009 partially offset by a $9 million loss on a foreign currency forward contract in the fourth quarter of 2010. foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net, represent the net gain or loss on revaluation of external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar have a significant effect on our operating results, particularly the euro. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.33 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to $1.39 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2009. foreign currency exchange resulted in a $136 million gain for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $2 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the gains in 2010 resulted primarily from the fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro applied to certain of our euro denominated senior secured term loans that, in july 2010, were designated as net investment hedges and debenture loans as well as fluctuations in certain currencies including the euro and canadian dollar associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. other expense, net other expense, net of $81 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 includes net charges of approximately $90 million associated with the redemption and subsequent retirement of all $870 million aggregate principal amount of our 10.00% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 105% of the amount redeemed as well as all 150 million aggregate principal amount of our 9% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 104.5% of the amount redeemed. the charges related to the associated redemption premiums and recognition of previously deferred financing costs. these charges were partially offset by gains attributable to business divestitures. other expense, net of $17 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 primarily included net charges of approximately $19 million associated with the purchase and cancellation of gbp 250 million 5.625% emtn debenture notes and the write-off of deferred financing costs associated with the modification of our senior secured credit facility offset by net gains of associated with certain divestitures. income/(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates income was $103 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to a loss of $603 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the change primarily relates to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in 2009, lower derivative losses, higher foreign currency exchange transaction gains and improved business performance primarily attributable to revenue growth. 44 table of contents income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009 were 45% (benefit) and 33%, respectively. the effective tax rate benefit for the year ended december 31, 2010 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the favorable effect of certain foreign currency exchange gains, financing activities, release of valuation allowances and the impact of the tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, partially offset by withholding taxes. the effective tax benefit rate for the year ended december 31, 2009 was higher than the statutory tax rate primarily due to state income and foreign withholding taxes and the impact of the tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, which is partially offset by impairments of goodwill and intangible assets, which had a tax basis significantly lower than the underlying book basis and therefore a lower tax benefit. equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates equity in net income of affiliates was $5 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to a loss of $22 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. during the third quarter of 2009 we concluded that the carrying value of our non-controlling ownership interest in scarborough research ( scarborough ) was impaired as a result of continued declines in customer discretionary spending and the related impact on the launch of new performance tracking and marketing products. we deemed this impairment to be other than temporary and, accordingly, recorded an after-tax non-cash impairment charge of $26 million (net of tax of $18 million). discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2010, loss from discontinued operations, net of tax was $22 million compared to a loss of $61 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. discontinued operations primarily relate to our publications operating segment. the loss for the year ended december 31, 2010 reflects the cessation of operations during 2010 as well as a $7 million charge (net of tax of $5 million) associated with the settlement of an outstanding lawsuit. the loss for the year ended december 31, 2009 includes goodwill impairment charges of $55 million. adjusted ebitda our adjusted ebitda increased 7.5% to $1,411 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $1,312 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 6.8% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 27.52% for the year ended december 31, 2010 from 27.28% for the year ended december 31, 2009. see results of operations (years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009) for the reconciliation of net income/(loss) to adjusted ebitda. 45 table of contents business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to the year ended december 31, 2010 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to the year ended december 31, 2010, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2011 year ended december 31, 2010 % variance 2011 vs. 2010 reported year ended december 31, 2010 constant currency % variance 2011 vs. 2010 constant currency revenues by segment buy $ 3,409 $ 3,108 9.7 % $ 3,196 6.7 % watch 1,944 1,850 5.1 % 1,873 3.8 % expositions 179 168 6.5 % 168 6.5 % total $ 5,532 $ 5,126 7.9 % $ 5,237 5.6 % buy segment revenues revenues increased 9.7% to $3,409 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $3,108 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 6.7% on a constant currency basis driven by a 17.8% increase in developing markets (15.0% on a constant currency basis) and a 6.1% increase in developed markets (3.0% on a constant currency basis), as our customers continue to expand geographically and increase their spending on analytical services. revenues from information services increased 11.2% to $2,534 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $2,278 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 7.9% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 3.3% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by 20.0% growth in developing markets (17.1% on a constant currency basis) as a result of continued expansion of both our retail measurement and consumer panel services to both new and existing customers and new markets. revenue from developed markets increased 7.5% (4.0% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to growth in retail measurement services in north america from new and existing customers. revenues from insights services increased 5.4% to $875 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $830 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 3.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by strong growth in our developing markets due to increases in customer discretionary spending on new product forecasting and other analytical services, which can be cyclical in nature. watch segment revenues revenues increased 5.1% to $1,944 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $1,850 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 3.8% on a constant currency basis. television measurement grew 4.7% driven by increases in spending from existing customers globally on both new and existing services. expositions segment revenues revenues increased 6.5% to $179 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $168 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. substantially all of this growth was driven by increases in exhibitors for certain sectors of existing shows with the remaining growth driven by the impact of acquisitions, net of certain show closures. 46 table of contents business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) operating income/(loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 432 $ 57 $ 198 $ 8 $ 4 $ 699 watch 462 15 299 5 781 expositions 60 2 25 87 corporate and eliminations (160 ) 10 7 14 108 (21 ) total nielsen $ 794 $ 84 $ 529 $ 27 $ 112 $ 1,546 year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions) operating income/(loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 414 $ 27 $ 202 $ 7 $ 6 $ 656 watch 367 15 317 3 2 704 expositions 49 2 27 78 corporate and eliminations (100 ) 17 12 8 36 (27 ) total nielsen $ 730 $ 61 $ 558 $ 18 $ 44 $ 1,411 (1) other items primarily consist of sponsor advisory fees (including termination payments of $102 million), costs related to our initial public offering and other deal related fees for the year ended december 31, 2011. other items include transformation initiative and other dual running costs of $16 million, consulting and other costs of $16 million associated with information technology infrastructure transformation, fees associated with certain consulting arrangements and preparatory costs for our initial public offering of common stock and sponsor monitoring fees of $12 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. 47 table of contents (in millions) year ended december 31, 2011 year ended december 31, 2010 % variance 2011 vs. 2010 reported year ended december 31, 2010 constant currency % variance 2011 vs. 2010 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 699 $ 656 6.6 % $ 675 3.6 % watch 781 704 10.9 % 707 10.5 % expositions 87 78 11.5 % 78 11.5 % corporate and eliminations (21 ) (27 ) 22.2 % (26 ) 19.2 % total nielsen $ 1,546 $ 1,411 9.6 % $ 1,434 7.8 % buy. operating income was $432 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $414 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 due primarily to the revenue performance mentioned above and the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. this performance was offset in part by higher restructuring charges and investments in developing markets expansion. non-gaap business segment income increased 3.6% on a constant currency basis. watch. operating income was $462 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $367 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, the impact of productivity initiatives and the decrease in depreciation and amortization expense associated with technology infrastructure initiatives and local people meters. non-gaap business segment income increased 10.5% on a constant currency basis. expositions. operating income was $60 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $49 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 driven primarily by the revenue performance discussed above, as well as lower depreciation expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 11.5% on a constant currency basis. corporate and eliminations . operating loss was $160 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to an operating loss of $100 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 due primarily to the $102 million charge for the termination and settlement of the sponsor advisory agreement as well as certain costs attributable to the initial public offering of our common stock, offset by lower restructuring charges. non-gaap business segment loss decreased 19.2% on a constant currency basis. business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to the year ended december 31, 2009 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue growth data for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to the year ended december 31, 2009, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. in order to determine the percentage change in revenue on a constant currency basis, we remove the positive and negative impacts of changes foreign currency exchange rates: (in millions) year ended december 31, 2010 year ended december 31, 2009 % variance 2010 vs. 2009 reported year ended december 31, 2009 constant currency % variance 2010 vs. 2009 constant currency revenues by segment buy $ 3,108 $ 2,861 8.6 % $ 2,889 7.6 % watch 1,850 1,767 4.7 % 1,769 4.6 % expositions 168 180 (6.6 )% 180 (6.7 )% total $ 5,126 $ 4,808 6.6 % $ 4,838 6.1 % 48 table of contents buy segment revenues revenues increased 8.6% to $3,108 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $2,861 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 7.6% on a constant currency basis driven by a 20.3% increase in developing markets (15.9% on a constant currency basis) and a 4.2% increase in developed markets (4.3% on a constant currency basis), as our customers continue to expand geographically and increase their spending on analytical services. revenues from information services increased 6.1% to $2,278 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $2,148 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 5.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.9% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by a 17.1% growth in developing markets (13.4% on a constant currency basis) as a result of continued expansion of both our retail measurement and consumer panel services to both new and existing customers and new markets. revenue from developed markets increased 1.9% (2.0% on a constant currency basis) as growth in retail measurement services in western europe and north america, primarily to existing customers, was offset by the impact of the divestiture of our box office scanning business. revenues from insights services increased 16.4% to $830 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $713 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 14.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 1.6% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by strong growth in both developed and developing markets due to increases in customer discretionary spending on new product forecasting and other analytical services, which can be cyclical in nature. watch segment revenues revenues increased 4.7% to $1,850 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $1,767 million for the year ended december 31, 2009, or 4.6% on a constant currency basis. television measurement grew 3.9% as increases in spending from existing customers offset declines attributable to a planned international market closure. online and mobile grew 14.3% as increases in both new and existing customer spending were offset slightly by the timing of certain client deliverables as compared to the prior year. expositions segment revenues revenues declined 6.6% to $168 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $180 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 primarily as a result of softness in both the building industry and retail sector tradeshows. business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, impairment charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), 49 table of contents operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions) operating income/(loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 414 $ 27 $ 202 $ 7 $ 6 $ 656 watch 367 15 317 3 2 704 expositions 49 2 27 78 corporate and eliminations (100 ) 17 12 8 36 (27 ) total nielsen $ 730 $ 61 $ 558 $ 18 $ 44 $ 1,411 year ended december 31, 2009 (in millions) operating income/(loss) impairment charges and restructuring charges (2) depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 324 $ 39 $ 217 $ 6 $ 9 $ 595 watch (36 ) 411 292 3 2 672 expositions (105 ) 128 40 63 corporate and eliminations (67 ) 11 8 5 25 (18 ) total nielsen $ 116 $ 589 $ 557 $ 14 $ 36 $ 1,312 (1) other items include transformation initiative and other dual running costs of $16 million and $7 million for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. also includes consulting and other costs of $16 million and $17 million for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with information technology infrastructure transformation, fees associated with certain consulting arrangements and preparatory costs for our initial public offering of common stock. also includes sponsor monitoring fees of $12 million for both the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009. (2) includes $402 million goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges within our watch segment in 2009 and $125 million within our expositions segment in 2009. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2010 year ended december 31, 2009 % variance 2010 vs. 2009 reported year ended december 31, 2009 constant currency % variance 2010 vs. 2009 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 656 $ 595 10.3 % $ 604 8.6 % watch 704 672 4.8 % 672 4.8 % expositions 78 63 24.0 % 64 22.3 % corporate and eliminations (27 ) (18 ) (49.5 )% (18 ) (49.5 )% total nielsen $ 1,411 $ 1,312 7.5 % $ 1,322 6.8 % buy. operating income increased 27.8% to $414 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 from $324 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 due to the strong revenue performance mentioned above as well as lower restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, offset in part by investments in developing markets expansion. non-gaap business segment income increased 8.6% on a constant currency basis. 50 table of contents watch. operating income was $367 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to a loss of $36 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the increase was driven by the impact of impairment charges recorded in 2009 and the revenue performance discussed above, which was offset by the impact of the planned international market closure, $25 million in increased depreciation and amortization expense associated with technology infrastructure initiatives and local people meters and increased investment in cross-platform measurement initiatives. non-gaap business segment income increased 4.8% on a constant currency basis. expositions. operating income was $49 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to a loss of $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 driven by the impact of impairment charges recorded in 2009 as well as lower depreciation expense and the costs savings effects of the transformation initiative and other productivity initiatives. non-gaap business segment income increased 22.3% on a constant currency basis. corporate and eliminations . operating loss was $100 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 as compared to an operating loss of $67 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 due to increases in certain product investments and global infrastructure costs as well as higher restructuring charges and costs attributable to the initial public offering of our common stock. non-gaap business segment loss increased 49.5% on a constant currency basis. liquidity and capital resources overview and 2011 capital markets transactions our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. we expect that our primary source of liquidity will continue to be cash generated from operations as well as existing cash. at december 31, 2011, cash and cash equivalents were $319 million and our total indebtedness was $6,763 million. in addition, we also had $616 million available for borrowing under our senior secured revolving credit facility at december 31, 2011. our cash interest paid for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $446 million, $531 million and $495 million, respectively. of the $319 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $282 million was held in jurisdictions outside the u.s. and as a result there may be tax consequences if such amounts were moved out of these jurisdictions or repatriated to the u.s. we regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our u.s. indebtedness and related obligations. we believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. we expect the cash flow from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, and capital spending over the next year. in addition we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. on january 31, 2011, we completed an initial public offering of 82,142,858 shares of our 0.07 par value common stock at a price of $23.00 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1,801 million, net of $88 million of underwriter discounts. concurrent with our offering of common stock, we issued $288 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.25% mandatory convertible subordinated bonds due february 1, 2013 ( the bonds ), generating proceeds of approximately $277 million, net of $11 million of underwriter discounts. interest on the bonds are payable quarterly in arrears in february, may, august and november of each year, commencing in may 2011. the bonds 51 table of contents will be mandatorily converted into between 10,416,700 and 12,499,925 shares of our common stock on february 1, 2013 at a conversion rate per $50.00 principal amount of the bonds of not more than 2.1739 shares and not less than 1.8116 shares depending on the market value of our common stock (the average of the volume weighted-average price of our common stock for a 20 consecutive trading day period beginning on the 25 th trading day immediately preceding february 1, 2013) relative to the initial price and the threshold appreciation price per share of $23.00 and $27.60, respectively. we utilized substantially all of the combined net proceeds of approximately $2,078 million associated with the aforementioned transactions to settle certain advisory agreements with the sponsors (see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, investments in affiliates and related party transactions for information regarding these advisory agreements) and redeem and retire certain issuances of our long-term indebtedness as follows: in february 2011, we paid approximately $201 million to redeem $164 million of our outstanding $467 million ($500 million aggregate principal amount) 11.50% senior discount notes due 2016 with a redemption cost of the stated rate applied to the principal amount being redeemed plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest to the principal amount. in february 2011, we paid approximately $129 million to redeem $107 million of our outstanding $307 million ($330 million aggregate principal amount) 11.625% senior discount notes due 2014 with a redemption cost of the stated rate applied to the principal amount being redeemed plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest to the principal amount. in february 2011, we paid approximately $1,133 million to redeem all of our outstanding $999 million ($1,070 million aggregate principal amount) 12.50% senior subordinated discount notes due 2016 at a price of 105.89% of the aggregate principal amount. in february and march 2011, we paid approximately $495 million to redeem all of our outstanding 11.125% senior discount debenture notes due 2016 at a price of 104.87% of the aggregate principal amount. we recorded a total debt extinguishment charge of approximately $145 million (net of tax of $86 million) in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended december 31, 2011 associated with these redemptions. the pre-tax amount of this charge was recorded in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of operations financing transactions term loan facilities in august 2006, certain of our subsidiaries entered into a senior secured credit agreement that was amended and restated in june 2009 (the senior secured credit agreement ). the senior secured credit agreement provides for two term loan facilities of $1,610 million and 227 million maturing in 2013 and four term loan facilities, including two dollar-denominated term loan facilities totaling $2,386 million and two euro-denominated term loan facilities totaling 273 million, maturing in 2016, for which total outstanding borrowings were $4,156 million at december 31, 2011. we are required to repay installments on the borrowings under the senior secured term loan facilities due 2016 in quarterly principal amounts of 0.25% of their original principal amount, with the remaining amount payable upon maturity. 52 table of contents borrowings under the senior secured term loan facilities bear interest at a rate as determined by the type of borrowing, equal to either (a) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (1) the federal funds rate plus 0.5% or (2) the prime rate or (b) a libor rate for the currency of such borrowings, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. the applicable margins for the senior secured term loans that mature in 2013 vary depending on our secured leverage ratio, from 2.00% to 2.25% in the case of libor loans and from 1.00% to 1.25% in the case of base rate loans. the applicable margins for two of the senior secured term loans that mature in 2016 are set at a fixed rate of 3.75% in the case of libor loans and 2.75% in the case of base rate loans, and the margin for the remaining 2016 term loans vary depending upon our total leverage and credit rating, from 3.25% to 3.75% in the case of libor loans and from 2.25% to 2.75% in the case of base rate loans. the senior secured credit agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business they conduct. these entities are restricted, subject to certain exceptions, in their ability to transfer their net assets to nielsen holdings n.v. such restricted net assets amounted to approximately $4.9 billion at december 31, 2011. in addition, these entities are required to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. neither nielsen holdings nor tnc b.v. is currently bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the credit agreement. the senior secured credit agreement also contain certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. certain significant financial covenants are described further below. in june 2009, we also entered into a senior secured loan agreement with goldman sachs lending partners llc (the senior secured loan agreement ), which provides for senior secured term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $500 million bearing interest at a fixed rate of 8.50%. these 2009 term loans are secured on a pari passu basis with our existing obligations under our senior secured credit agreement and have a maturity of eight years. the net proceeds from the issuance of the 2009 term loans of approximately $481 million were used in their entirety to pay down senior secured term loan facilities under the senior secured credit agreement. the senior secured loan agreement also include negative covenants, subject to significant exceptions, restricting or limiting the ability of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries to, among other things, incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates and enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions. neither nielsen holdings nor tnc b.v. is bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the senior secured loan agreement. the senior secured loan agreement also contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. obligations under the senior secured credit agreement and senior secured loan agreement are guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of tnc b.v. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities. 53 table of contents subsequent event in february 2012, we amended and restated the senior secured credit agreement to provide for a new five-year amortizing term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1,222 million, the proceeds from which were used to repay a corresponding amount of our existing senior secured term loans due 2013. borrowings under this new term loan facility bear interest at a rate as determined by the type of borrowing, equal to either the base rate or libor rate, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. the applicable margin on base rate loans under this new term loan facility ranges from 0.75% to 1.50% based on a total leverage ratio. the applicable margin on libor loans under this new term loan facility ranges from 1.75% to 2.50% based on the total leverage ratio. loans under this new term loan facility mature in full in february 2017, but the maturity date shall be january 2016 if at such time there is more than $750 million in the aggregate of existing other term loans under the senior secured credit agreement with a maturity of may 2016. the loans under this new term loan facility are required to be repaid in an amount equal to 5% of the original principal amount in the first year after the closing date, 5% in the second year, 10% in the third year, 10% in the fourth year and 70% in the fifth year (with payments in each year being made in equal quarterly installments other than the fifth year, in which payments shall be equal to 3.33% of the original principal amount of loans in each of the first three quarters and the remaining principal balance due in february 2017 (unless repayment is required in january 2016 as indicated above)). loans under this new term loan facility are secured on a pari passu basis with our existing obligations under the senior secured credit agreement and senior secured loan agreement. revolving credit facility the senior secured credit agreement also contains a senior secured revolving credit facility under which nielsen finance llc, tnc (us) holdings, inc., and nielsen holding and finance b.v. can borrow revolving loans. the revolving credit facility can also be used for letters of credit, guarantees and swingline loans. in march 2011, we amended the senior secured credit agreement to provide for the termination of the existing revolving credit commitments totaling $688 million, which had a final maturity date of august 2012, and their replacement with new revolving credit commitments totaling $635 million with a final maturity date of april 2016. revolving loans made pursuant to the new revolving credit commitments may be drawn in u.s. dollars or euros (at the election of the borrowers) and bear a tiered floating interest rate depending on a total leverage ratio, from 2.25% to 3.50% in the case of libor borrowings and from 1.25% to 2.50% in the case of base rate borrowings. a commitment fee is payable on the unused portion of the new revolving credit commitments ranging from 0.375% to 0.75% also depending on the total leverage ratio. the senior secured revolving credit facility is provided under the senior secured credit agreement and so contains covenants and restrictions as noted above with respect to the senior secured credit agreement under the term loan facilities section above. obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by the same entities that guarantee obligations under the senior secured credit agreement and senior secured loan agreement. as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, we had no borrowings outstanding, but had outstanding letters of credit of $19 million and $20 million, respectively. as of december 31, 2011, we had $616 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility. debenture loans the indentures governing certain of our debenture loans limit the majority of our subsidiaries ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. upon a change in control, we are required to make an offer to redeem all of the senior notes and senior subordinated 54 table of contents discount notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. the senior notes and senior subordinated discount notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v. overview of financing transactions we entered into the following transactions in 2009: in january 2009, we issued $330 million in aggregate principal amount of 11.625% senior notes due 2014 at an issue price of $297 million with cash proceeds of approximately $290 million, net of fees and expenses. in february 2009, we entered into two three-year forward interest rate swap agreements with starting dates of november 9, 2009. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates for $500 million of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 2.47%. the commencement date of the interest rate swaps coincides with a $1 billion notional amount interest rate swap maturity that was entered into in november 2006. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in march 2009, we purchased and cancelled approximately gbp 101 million of our total gbp 250 million outstanding 5.625% emtn debenture notes. this transaction was pursuant to a cash tender offer, whereby we paid, and participating note holders received, a price of &pound;940 per &pound;1,000 in principal amount of the notes, plus accrued interest. in conjunction with the gbp note cancellation we satisfied, and paid in cash, a portion of the remarketing settlement value associated with the cancelled notes to the two holders of a remarketing option associated with the notes. in addition, we unwound a portion of our existing gbp/euro foreign currency swap, which was previously designated as a foreign currency cash flow hedge. we recorded a net loss of $3 million as a result of the combined elements of this transaction in march 2009 as a component of other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations. the net cash paid for the combined elements of this transaction was approximately $197 million. in march 2009, we terminated 200 million notional to $259 million notional cross-currency swap, which previously converted part of our euro-denominated external debt to u.s. dollar debt and received a cash settlement of approximately $2 million. no hedge designation was made for this swap and therefore all prior changes in fair value were recorded in earnings. in april 2009, we issued $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 11.50% senior notes due 2016 at an issue price of $461 million with cash proceeds of approximately $452 million, net of fees and expenses. in june 2009, we purchased and cancelled all of our remaining outstanding gbp 149 million 5.625% emtn debenture notes. this transaction was pursuant to a cash tender offer, whereby we paid, and participating note holders received, par value for the notes, plus accrued interest. in conjunction with the gbp note cancellation, we satisfied, and paid in cash, the remarketing settlement value to two holders of the remaining portion of the remarketing option associated with the notes. in addition, we unwound the remaining portion of our existing gbp/euro foreign currency swap, which was previously designated as a foreign currency cash flow hedge. we recorded a net loss of approximately $12 million in june 2009 as a component of other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations as a result of the combined elements of this transaction. the net cash paid for the combined elements of this transaction was approximately $330 million. in june 2009, we entered into a senior secured loan agreement with goldman sachs lending partners llc, which provides for senior secured term loans in the aggregated principal amount of $500 million (the new term loans ) bearing interest at a fixed rate of 8.50%. the new term loans are secured on a pari passu basis with our existing obligations under our 2006 senior secured credit facilities and 55 table of contents have a maturity of eight years. the net proceeds from the issuance of the new term loans of approximately $481 million were used in their entirety to pay down senior secured term loan obligations under our 2006 senior secured credit facilities. in june 2009, we received the requisite consent to amend our 2006 senior secured credit facilities to permit, among other things: (i) future issuances of additional secured notes or loans, which may include, in each case, indebtedness secured on a pari passu basis with our obligations under the 2006 senior secured credit facilities, so long as (a) the net cash proceeds from any such issuance are used to prepay term loans under the 2006 senior secured credit facilities at par until $500 million of term loans have been paid, and (b) 90% of the net cash proceeds in excess of the first $500 million from any such issuance (but all of the net cash proceeds after the first $2.0 billion) are used to prepay term loans under the 2006 senior secured credit facilities at par; and (ii) allow us to agree with lenders to extend the maturity of their term loans and revolving commitments and for us to pay increased interest rates or otherwise modify the terms of their loans in connection with such an extension (subject to certain limitations, including mandatory increases of interest rates under certain circumstances) (collectively, the amendment ). in connection with the amendment, we extended the maturity of $1.26 billion of existing term loans from august 9, 2013 to may 1, 2016. the interest rate margins of term loans that were extended were increased to 3.75%. the amendment and the subsequent extension of maturity of a portion of the existing term loans is considered a modification of our existing obligations and has been reflected as such in the audited consolidated financial statements. we recorded a charge of approximately $4 million in june 2009 as a component of other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily relating to the write-off of previously deferred debt issuance costs as a result of this modification. in december 2009, we elected to permanently repay $75 million of our existing term loans due august 2013. we entered into the following transactions during 2010: in march 2010, we entered into a three-year interest swap to fix the libor-related portion of interest rates for $250 million of the our variable-rate debt at 1.69%. this swap replaced the $500 million notional amount interest rate swap that matured on february 9, 2010. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in may 2010, our 50 million variable rate emtn matured and was repaid. in august 2010, we completed a term loan extension offer in accordance with the terms of our 2006 senior secured credit facilities. in connection with completing the term loan extension offer and in order to document the terms of the new class c term loans, as of such date we entered into an amendment to the 2006 senior secured credit facilities (the 2010 amendment ). pursuant to the term loan extension offer and the 2010 amendment, approximately $1,495 million of our class a term loans (which mature august 2013) and approximately $5 million of our class b term loans (which mature may 2016) were exchanged for the same principal amount of new class c term loans. the new class c term loans mature on may 1, 2016 and bear a tiered floating interest rate of libor plus a margin of (x) 3.75% to the extent that nielsen finance llc total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2006 senior secured credit facilities) is greater than 5.0 to 1.0 and (y) 3.50% to the extent that nielsen finance llc total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2006 senior secured credit facilities) is less than or equal to 5.0 to 1.0. the foregoing margins are also subject to a decrease of 0.25% in the event and for so long as nielsen finance llc corporate credit and/or family rating, as applicable, from either s&amp;p or moody is at least bb- or ba3, respectively. the class c term loans will amortize in equal quarterly installments in aggregate annual amounts equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount. no optional prepayments of class c term loans may be made so long as any class a or class b term loans are outstanding. except as set forth in the 2010 amendment, the class c term loans shall have the same terms as the class b term loans. 56 table of contents in october 2010, we issued $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2018 at an issue price of $745 million with cash proceeds of approximately $731 million, net of fees and expenses. in november 2010, we issued an additional $330 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2018 at an issue price of $340 million with cash proceeds of approximately $334 million, net of fees and expenses. we used the net proceeds from the aforementioned issuances, along with cash on hand, to fund a redemption of the remaining all of our 10% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 105% and all of our 9% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 104.5% in separate transactions in november and december 2010. the redemption and retirement of these notes resulted in a loss of approximately $90 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. in october and november 2010, we entered into an aggregate of $1 billion notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2010. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.72%. the commencement date of the interest rate swaps coincided with the $1 billion notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in november 2010. additionally, in november 2010 we entered into a $250 million notional amount three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in november 2011, which fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 1.26%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. we elected to permanently repay $75 million of our existing term loans due august 2013 during 2010. in addition to the initial public offering of our common stock and our mandatory convertible subordinated bond offering, and related transactions, we entered into the following transactions during 2011: during 2011, we elected to permanently repay $287 million of our existing term loans due august 2013. in december 2011, nielsen jpy 4,000 million 2.50% emtn matured and was repaid. in november 2011, we entered into a $125 million notional amount and a 125 million notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2011. these agreements fix the libor and euro libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 0.84% and 1.30%, respectively. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in august 2011, we entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year forward interest swap agreements with starting dates in september 2011. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.84%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in march 2011, we entered into an amendment (the amendment agreement ) to our amended and restated credit agreement, dated august 9, 2006 and amended and restated as of june 23, 2009 (the credit agreement ), among us, the other borrowers and guarantors party thereto, the lenders and other parties from time to time party thereto, and citibank, n.a., as administrative agent. the amendment agreement documents the terms of new revolving credit commitments obtained by us in connection with a revolving credit commitment extension offer. in connection with the amendment agreement, we terminated the existing revolving credit commitments totaling $688 million, which had a final maturity date of august 9, 2012, and replaced them with new revolving credit commitments totaling $635 million with a final maturity date of april 1, 2016. 57 table of contents cash flows 2011 versus 2010 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $641 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, compared to $543 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the primary drivers for the increase in cash provided by operating activities was the growth in operating income excluding the impact of non-cash depreciation and amortization and lower interest payments. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), decreased by 1 day for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to being relatively flat for the year ended december 31, 2010. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $486 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, compared to $365 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the drivers for the increase in the usage of cash from investing activities were the increase in acquisition payments and capital expenditures. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $250 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, compared to $263 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the use of cash in both periods is described under the overview of financing transactions section above. cash flows 2010 versus 2009 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $543 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, compared to $517 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the primary driver for the increase in cash provided by operating activities was the growth in operating income excluding the impact of non-cash depreciation and amortization, partially offset by the reduction in working capital performance and higher interest payments. the reduction in working capital performance resulted primarily from an approximately $116 million reduction due to strong accounts receivable collections in 2009 and the timing of client billings. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), remained flat for the year ended december 31, 2010 compared to a decrease of 5 days to 50 days for the year ended december 31, 2009. these reductions were only partially offset by the timing of employee compensation and other accruals as well as lower restructuring and tax payments. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $365 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, compared to $227 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. the drivers for the increase in the usage of cash from investing activities were the increase in capital expenditures and lower proceeds from sales of subsidiaries. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $263 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, compared to $271 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. we repaid our 50 million emtn in may 2010 and repaid $295 million on our senior secured revolving credit facility in 2009 and executed numerous financing transactions in 2010 and 2009 described under the overview of financing transactions section above. capital expenditures investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $367 million, $334 million and $282 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the increase in capital expenditures related to significant investments in technology infrastructure development. covenants attributable to tnc b.v. financial covenants contained in our credit agreement consist of a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio as related to our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries. the leverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of total net 58 table of contents debt (as defined in the facility) at the end of any calendar quarter to covenant ebitda (as defined in the facility) for the four quarters then ended to exceed a specified threshold. currently, the maximum permitted ratio is 7.0 to 1.0, with such maximum ratio declining to 6.25 to 1.0 for periods beginning october 1, 2012. the interest coverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of covenant ebitda at the end of any calendar quarter to consolidated interest expense (as defined in the credit agreement) for the four quarters then ended to be less than a specified threshold. currently, the minimum permitted ratio is 1.60 to 1.0, with such minimum ratio declining to 1.50 to 1.0 for periods beginning october 1, 2012. failure to comply with either of these covenants would result in an event of default under our credit agreement unless waived by our senior credit lenders. an event of default under our credit agreement can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facility, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. as our failure to comply with the covenants described above can cause us to go into default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our credit agreement and these covenants are material to us. as of december 31, 2011, we were in full compliance with the covenants described above. pursuant to our credit agreement, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our credit agreement to the extent in any full calendar year we generate excess cash flow ( ecf ), as defined in the credit agreement. the percentage of ecf that must be applied as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda, as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. to the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ecf clause, such payment must generally occur on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. at december 31, 2011, our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda was less than 5.00 to 1.00 and therefore no mandatory repayment was required. our next ecf measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2012 results, and although the company does not expect to be required to issue any mandatory repayments in 2013 or beyond, it is uncertain at this time if any such payments will be required in future periods beyond 2012. commitments and contingencies outsourced services agreements in february 2008, we amended and restated our master services agreement dated june 16, 2004 ( msa ), with tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (jointly tcs ). the term of the amended and restated msa is for ten years, effective in october 2007; with a one year renewal option granted to us, during which ten year period (or if we exercise our renewal option, eleven year period) we have committed to purchase at least $1 billion in services from tcs. we expect to satisfy this commitment by december 2012. unless mutually agreed, the payment rates for services under the amended and restated msa are not subject to adjustment due to inflation or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. tcs will provide us with information technology, applications development and maintenance and business process outsourcing services globally. the amount of the purchase commitment may be reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the agreement. in addition, in 2008, we entered into an agreement with tcs to outsource our global it infrastructure services. the agreement has an initial term of seven years, and provides for tcs to manage our infrastructure costs at an agreed upon level and to provide nielsen infrastructure services globally for an annual service charge of $39 million per year, which applies towards the satisfaction of our aforementioned purchased services commitment with tcs of at least $1 billion over the term of the amended and restated msa. the agreement is subject to earlier termination under certain limited conditions. 59 table of contents other contractual obligations our other contractual obligations include capital lease obligations (including interest portion), facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal and interest on debt and pension fund obligations. at december 31, 2011, the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2011, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. therefore, $125 million of unrecognized tax benefits (which includes interest and penalties of $29 million) have been excluded from the contractual obligations table below. see note 13 income taxes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. payments due by period (in millions) total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter capital lease obligations and other debt (a) $ 185 $ 20 $ 19 $ 15 $ 14 $ 14 $ 103 operating leases (b) 330 83 64 52 41 35 55 other contractual obligations (c) 588 418 117 23 15 13 2 long-term debt, including current portion (a) 6,359 181 340 338 149 3,034 2,317 interest (d) 1,724 378 343 315 296 203 189 pension fund obligations (e) 58 58 total $ 9,244 $ 1,138 $ 883 $ 743 $ 515 $ 3,299 $ 2,666 (a) other debt includes bank overdrafts of $1 million due within one year. these amounts exclude the $288 million of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds due february 1, 2013 as these bonds will convert into shares of our common stock upon maturity and will not result in a cash payment of principal. the payments have been shown to reflect the term loan refinancing executed in february 2012. our short-term and long-term debt obligations, including capital lease and other financing obligations, are described in note 10 long-term debt and other financing arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. (b) our operating lease obligations are described in note 15 commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. (c) other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreement, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. we generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. the amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. our remaining commitments under the outsourced services agreements with tcs have been included above on an estimated basis over the years within the contractual period in which we expect to satisfy our obligations. (d) interest payments consist of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. interest payments associated with the $288 million of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds due february 1, 2013 have been included as it is assumed such payments will be made in cash. these amounts have been adjusted to reflect the term loan refinancing subsequent event described in note 10 long-term debt and other financing arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. (e) our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $54 million, $30 million and $44 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. future minimum pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2012. see note 9 pensions and other post-retirement benefits to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations. 60 table of contents guarantees and other contingent commitments at december 31, 2011, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements: sub-lease guarantees. we provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. to date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded. letters of credit. letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $19 million at december 31, 2011. legal proceedings and contingencies sunbeam television corp. sunbeam television corp. ( sunbeam ) filed a lawsuit in federal district court in miami, florida in april 2009. the lawsuit alleged that we violated federal and florida state antitrust laws and florida unfair trade practices laws by attempting to maintain a monopoly and abuse our position in the market, and breached our contract with sunbeam by producing defective ratings data through our sampling methodology. the complaint did not specify the amount of damages sought and also sought declaratory and equitable relief. in january 2011, the u.s. district court in the southern district of florida dismissed all federal and state antitrust claims brought against us by sunbeam stating that sunbeam failed to show that any competitor was willing and able to enter the local television ratings market in miami and was excluded from that market by us. the court also determined that sunbeam could not prove that the current ratings for sunbeam local station wsvn are less accurate than they would be under a prospective competitor methodology. the court deferred ruling on the remaining ancillary claims, including breach of contract and violation of florida deceptive and unfair trade practices act. subsequent to the court decision, sunbeam voluntarily dismissed with prejudice the remaining claims in the case so that all claims have been dismissed. sunbeam has appealed the court dismissal of the antitrust claims, and the appeal is currently pending in the u.s. court of appeals for the eleventh judicial circuit. comscore, inc. in march 2011, we filed a lawsuit against comscore, inc. ( comscore ) in the united states district court for the eastern district of virginia (the court ) alleging infringement by comscore of certain of our patent rights. our complaint sought unspecified damages and injunctive relief. further, in march 2011, comscore filed a lawsuit against us in the court alleging infringement of certain patent rights of comscore by us. comscore complaint sought unspecified damages and injunctive relief. in december 2011, we entered into a patent purchase, license and settlement agreement (the patent purchase agreement ) with comscore in order to resolve the litigation. pursuant to the patent purchase agreement, we received, among other things, shares of comscore common stock and other assets. nielsen recorded a net gain related to the settlement, of which $11 million is recorded in other expense, net in our consolidated financial statements. other legal proceedings and contingencies we are subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. while the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. however, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 61 table of contents off-balance sheet arrangements except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources. summary of recent accounting pronouncements revenue recognition in october 2009, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued an accounting update that amends asc 605 revenue recognition , which requires entities to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy and eliminates the residual method of revenue allocation and requires revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method. this amendment was effective for us as of january 1, 2011 for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in 2011. the adoption of this amendment did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements as of december 31, 2011 or for the year then ended. fair value measurement in may 2011, the fasb issued an accounting update that amends asc 820 fair value measurement regarding fair value measurements and disclosure requirements. the amendments are effective for us for interim and annual periods in 2012. the adoption of this update is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. presentation of comprehensive income in june 2011, the fasb issued an accounting update that amends asc 220 presentation of comprehensive income , which eliminates the option to present other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of equity. companies can elect to present the items of net income and other comprehensive income in a continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate, but consecutive, single statements. under either method the statement would need to be presented with equal prominence as the other primary financial statements. we will adopt this amended guidance in our first interim reporting period in 2012 and will present the items of net income and other comprehensive income in two separate, but consecutive, single statements. testing goodwill for impairment in september 2011, the fasb issued an accounting update that amends asc 350 goodwill and other intangible assets , which is intended to simplify goodwill impairment testing by adding a qualitative review step to assess whether the required quantitative impairment analysis that exists today is necessary. the amended guidance permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. if it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the currently prescribed two-step goodwill impairment test. otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. the amended guidance is effective for us beginning in 2012. we will apply the updated guidance to our october 1, 2012 annual impairment test and have considered the results of our 2011 impairment test in forming the basis for our assumptions upon adoption of this update. the adoption of this update is not expected to have a significant impact on the our consolidated financial statements. 62 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. we actively monitor these exposures. historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. our objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. it is our policy not to trade in financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate globally and we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure. foreign currency translation risk is the risk that exchange rate gains or losses arise from translating foreign entities statements of earnings and balance sheets from functional currency to our reporting currency (the u.s. dollar) for consolidation purposes. translation risk exposure is managed by creating natural hedges in our financing or by using derivative financial instruments aimed at offsetting certain exposures in the statement of earnings or the balance sheet. we do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. the table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the year ended december 31, 2011 and the year ended december 31, 2010: u.s. dollars euro other currencies year ended december 31, 2011 revenues 50 % 14 % 36 % operating costs 50 % 15 % 35 % year ended december 31, 2010 revenues 52 % 14 % 34 % operating costs 53 % 14 % 33 % based on the year ended december 31, 2011, a one cent change in the u.s. dollar/euro exchange rate would have impacted revenues by approximately $8 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income. we have operations in both our buy and watch segments in venezuela and our functional currency for these operations was the venezuelan bolivares fuertes. venezuela currency was considered hyperinflationary as of january 1, 2010 and further, in january 2010, venezuela currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate system was announced. we evaluated the new exchange rate system and concluded that our local currency transactions will be denominated in u.s. dollars effective as of january 1, 2010 and until venezuela currency is deemed to be non hyperinflationary. we recorded a charge of $7 million associated with the currency devaluation in january 2010 in our foreign exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net line item in the consolidated statement of operations. in june 2010, a further revision to the currency exchange rate system was made and in december 2010, the government of venezuela eliminated the preferential exchange rate. neither the impact of the hyperinflationary accounting or the subsequent changes to the exchange rate system had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2011 or 2010 nor are they expected to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements prospectively. effective in july 2010, we designated our euro denominated variable rate senior secured term loans due 2013 and 2016 as non-derivative hedges of our net investment in a european subsidiary. subsequent to this designation gains or losses attributable to fluctuations in the euro as compared to the u.s. dollar associated with 63 table of contents this debenture were recorded to currency translation adjustment within stockholders equity, net of income tax. we recorded losses of $43 million (net of tax of $17 million) to currency translation adjustment during the second half of 2010 associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates attributable to these loans and therefore no gains or losses were recorded within our net income/(loss) during that period. our net income/(loss) reflected foreign currency exchange gains of $96 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 and losses of $21 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. interest rate risk we continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerations in the u.s. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. at december 31, 2011, we had $4,221 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities and our existing floating rate notes, of which $2,537 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. a one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $17 million ($42 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). in february 2009, we modified the reset interest rate underlying our $4,525 million senior secured term loan and, as a result, the related floating-to-fixed interest rate swap derivative financial instruments became ineffective. beginning in february 2009, we began recording all changes in fair value of the floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps in place as of such date currently in earnings as a component of loss on derivative instruments. cumulative losses deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss were recognized in interest expense over the remaining term of the swaps being hedged. all associated interest rate swap instruments have matured as of december 31, 2011. in november 2011, we entered into a $125 million notional amount and a 125 million notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2011. these agreements fix the libor and euro libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 0.84% and 1.30%, respectively. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in august 2011, we entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year forward interest swap agreements with starting dates in september 2011. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.84%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in october and november 2010, we entered into an aggregate of $1 billion notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2010. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.72%. the commencement date of the interest rate swaps coincides with the $1 billion notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in november 2010. additionally, in november 2010, we entered into a $250 million notional amount three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in november 2011, which fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 1.26%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in march 2010, we entered into a three-year interest swap to fix the libor-related portion of interest rates for $250 million of our variable-rate debt at 1.69%. this swap replaced the $500 million notional amount interest rate swap that matured in february 2010. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. 64 table of contents in february 2009, we entered into two three-year forward interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2009. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates for $500 million of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 2.47%. the commencement date of the interest rate swaps coincided with the $1 billion notional amount interest rate swap that matured in november 2009. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. we do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transactions were executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties. 65 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors the risks described below are not the only risks facing us. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our business we may be unable to adapt to significant technological change which could adversely affect our business. we operate in businesses that require sophisticated data collection, processing systems, software and other technology. some of the technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly. we will be required to adapt to changing technologies, either by developing and marketing new services or by enhancing our existing services, to meet client demand. moreover, the introduction of new services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render existing services obsolete. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies, manage and process ever-increasing amounts of data and information and improve the performance, features and reliability of our existing services in response to changing client and industry demands. we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction or marketing of our services. new services, or enhancements to existing services, may not adequately meet the requirements of current and prospective clients or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. traditional methods of television viewing are changing as a result of fragmentation of channels and digital and other new television technologies and devices such as video-on-demand, digital video recorders, game consoles, tablets, other mobile devices and internet viewing. if we are unable to continue to successfully adapt our media measurement systems to new viewing habits, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. consolidation in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries could put pressure on the pricing of our services, thereby leading to decreased earnings. consolidation in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries could reduce aggregate demand for our services in the future and could limit the amounts we earn for our services. when companies merge, the services they previously purchased separately are often purchased by the combined entity in the aggregate in a lesser quantity than before, leading to volume compression and loss of revenue. while we attempt to mitigate the revenue impact of any consolidation by expanding our range of services, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we will be able to do so as industry consolidation continues, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. client procurement strategies could put additional pressure on the pricing of our information services, thereby leading to decreased earnings. certain of our clients may continue to seek further price concessions from us. this puts pressure on the pricing of our information services, which could limit the amounts we earn. while we attempt to mitigate the revenue impact of any pricing pressure through effective negotiations and by providing services to individual businesses within particular groups, there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we will be able to do so, which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. continued adverse market conditions, particularly in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications or technology industries could adversely impact our revenue. a number of adverse financial developments continue to impact the u.s. and global financial markets. these developments include a significant economic deterioration both in the united states and globally, 15 table of contents volatility and deterioration in the equity markets, and deterioration and tightening of liquidity in the credit markets. in addition, issues related to sovereign debt in europe recently have negatively affected the global financial markets. the current economic environment has witnessed a significant reduction in consumer confidence and demand, impacting the demand for our customers products and services. those reductions could adversely affect the ability of some of our customers to meet their current obligations to us and hinder their ability to incur new obligations until the economy and their businesses strengthen. the inability of our customers to pay us for our services and/or decisions by current or future customers to forego or defer purchases may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, profitability and cash flows and may continue to present risks for an extended period of time. we cannot predict the impact of economic slowdowns on our future financial performance. we expect that revenues generated from our information and insights services will continue to represent a substantial portion of our overall revenue for the foreseeable future. to the extent the businesses we service, especially our clients in the consumer packaged goods, media, entertainment, telecommunications and technology industries, are subject to the financial pressures of, for example, increased costs or reduced demand for their products, the demand for our services, or the prices our clients are willing to pay for those services, may decline. during challenging economic times, clients, typically advertisers, within our buy segment may reduce their discretionary advertising expenditures and may be less likely to purchase our analytical services, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. clients within our watch segment derive a significant amount of their revenue from the sale or purchase of advertising. during challenging economic times, advertisers may reduce advertising expenditures and advertising agencies and other media may be less likely to purchase our media information services, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. revenues within our expositions segment are primarily derived from business-to-business trade shows and events. during challenging economic times exhibitors may cut back on attending our events, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue. we have suffered losses due to goodwill impairment charges in the past and could do so again in the future. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual review for impairment (or more frequently should indications of impairment arise). in addition, other intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. as of december 31, 2012, we had goodwill and intangible assets of $11,907 million. any downward revisions in the fair value of our reporting units or our intangible assets could result in impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets that could materially affect our financial performance. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. we have now and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2012, we had total indebtedness of $6,584 million (including $288 million of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds due 2013 that were converted on february 1, 2013 into 10,416,700 shares of common stock). furthermore, the interest payments on our indebtedness could reduce the availability of our cash flow. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to the current general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, service development efforts and other general corporate purposes; 16 table of contents limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, service development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. in addition, the indentures governing our outstanding notes and our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit the ability of our operating subsidiaries to engage in activities that may be in our best interests in the long term. the failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. this could further increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. if new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash as well as continued access to the capital markets. our ability to generate cash and our access to the capital markets depend on many factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and product development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future and our ability to refinance our indebtedness. this, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. our cash interest expense for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $384 million, $446 million and $531 million, respectively. at december 31, 2012, we had $4,090 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities of which $2,540 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. a one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $16 million ($41 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the success of our business depends on our ability to recruit sample participants to participate in our research samples. our business uses scanners and diaries to gather consumer data from sample households as well as set meters, people meters, active/passive meters and diaries to gather television audience measurement data from sample households. it is increasingly difficult and costly to obtain consent from households to participate in the surveys. in addition, it is increasingly difficult and costly to ensure that the selected sample of households mirrors the behaviors and characteristics of the entire population and covers all of the demographic segments requested by our clients. additionally, as consumers adopt modes of telecommunication other than traditional 17 table of contents telephone service, such as mobile, cable and internet calling, it may become more difficult for our services to reach and recruit participants for consumer purchasing and audience measurement services. if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to recruit appropriate participants and maintain adequate participation levels, our clients may lose confidence in our ratings services and we could lose the support of the relevant industry groups. if this were to happen, our consumer purchasing and audience measurement services may be materially and adversely affected. data protection laws may restrict our activities and increase our costs. various statutes and rules regulate conduct in areas such as privacy and data protection which may affect our collection, use, storage and transfer of personally identifiable information both abroad and in the united states. compliance with these laws may require us to make certain investments or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services or only offer such services after making necessary modifications. failure to comply with these laws may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, data being blocked from use and liability under contractual warranties. in addition, there is an increasing public concern regarding data and consumer protection issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection laws has been slowly increasing. there is also the possibility that the scope of existing privacy laws may be expanded. for example, several countries, including the united states, have regulations that restrict telemarketing to individuals who request to be included on a do-not-call list. typically, these regulations target sales activity and do not apply to survey research. if the laws were extended to include survey research, our ability to recruit research participants could be adversely affected. these or future initiatives may adversely affect our ability to generate or assemble data or to develop or market current or future services, which could negatively impact our business. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. the success of our business will depend, in part, on: obtaining patent protection for our technology and services; defending our patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property; preserving our trade secrets and maintaining the security of our know-how and data; and operating our business without infringing upon intellectual property rights held by third parties. we rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and the patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws of the united states and other countries to protect our intellectual property. these legal measures afford only limited protection and may not provide sufficient protection to prevent the infringement, misuse or misappropriation of our intellectual property. intellectual property law in several foreign jurisdictions is subject to considerable uncertainty. there can be no assurances that the protections we have available for our proprietary technology in the united states and other countries will be available to us in all of the places we sell our services. any infringement or misappropriation of our technology can have a negative impact on our business. the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. the expiration of our patents may lead to increased competition. although our employees, consultants, clients and collaborators enter into confidentiality agreements with us, our trade secrets, data and know-how could be subject to unauthorized use, misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure. the growing need for global data, along with increased competition and technological advances, puts increasing pressure on us to share our intellectual property for client applications with others, which could result in infringement. competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. our trademarks could be challenged, which could force us to rebrand our services, result in a loss of brand recognition and require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. given the importance of our intellectual property, we will enforce our rights whenever it is necessary and prudent 18 table of contents to do so. any future litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial expense and diversion of time and attention of management, may not be resolved in our favor and could adversely affect our business. if third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, our operating profits could be adversely affected. we cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others in operating our business. we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims that we have infringed third parties intellectual property rights. any such claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; result in our being required to pay possibly significant damages; cause us to cease providing our services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or rebrand our services; divert management attention and resources; or require us to enter into potentially costly royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party intellectual property, although royalty or licensing agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. any of the above could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects and financial condition. we generate revenues throughout the world which are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, and our revenue and net income may suffer due to currency translations and repatriation of earnings to the u.s. we operate globally, deriving approximately 48% of revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012 in currencies other than u.s. dollars, with approximately 12% of revenues deriving in euros. our u.s. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in u.s. dollars, while our european operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in euros, which have recently been subject to significant volatility. outside the united states and the european union, we generate revenue and expenses predominantly in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to economic exposure. in certain instances, we may not be able to freely convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars due to limitations placed on such conversions. certain of the countries in which we operate, such as venezuela, have currencies which are considered to be hyperinflationary. these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. of the $288 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $265 million was held in jurisdictions outside the u.s. and as a result there may be tax consequences if such amounts were moved out of these jurisdictions or repatriated to the u.s. we regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our u.s. indebtedness and related obligations. our international operations are exposed to risks which could impede growth in the future. we continue to explore opportunities in major international markets around the world, including china, russia, india and brazil. international operations expose us to various additional risks, which could adversely affect our business, including: costs of customizing services for clients outside of the united states; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; 19 table of contents the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; difficulties in managing international operations; longer sales and payment cycles; exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; exposure to local economic conditions; limitations on the repatriation of funds from foreign operations; exposure to local political conditions, including adverse tax policies, civil unrest and seizure of assets by a foreign government; and the risks of an outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism in the jurisdictions in which we operate. in countries where there has not been a historical practice of using consumer packaged goods retail information or audience measurement information in the buying and selling of advertising time, it may be difficult for us to maintain subscribers. criticism of our audience measurement service by various industry groups and market segments could adversely affect our business. due to the high-profile nature of our services in the media, internet and entertainment information industries, we could become the target of criticism by various industry groups and market segments. we strive to be fair, transparent and impartial in the production of audience measurement services, and the quality of our u.s. ratings services are voluntarily subject to review and accreditation by the media rating council, a voluntary trade organization, whose members include many of our key client constituencies. however, criticism of our business by special interests, and by clients with competing and often conflicting demands on our measurement service, could result in government regulation. while we believe that government regulation is unnecessary, no assurance can be given that legislation will not be enacted in the future that would subject our business to regulation, which could adversely affect our business. a loss of one of our largest clients could adversely impact our results of operations. our top ten clients accounted for approximately 25% of our total revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012. we cannot assure you that any of our clients will continue to use our services to the same extent, or at all, in the future. a loss of one or more of our largest clients, if not replaced by a new client or an increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. we rely on third parties to provide certain data and services in connection with the provision of our current services. we rely on third parties to provide certain data and services for use in connection with the provision of our current services. for example, our buy segment enters into agreements with third parties (primarily retailers of fast-moving consumer goods) to obtain the raw data on retail product sales it processes and edits and from which it creates products and services. these suppliers of data may increase restrictions on our use of such data, fail to adhere to our quality control standards, increase the price they charge us for this data or refuse altogether to license the data to us. in addition, we may need to enter into agreements with third parties to assist with the marketing, technical and financial aspects of expanding our services for other types of media. in the event we are unable to use such third party data and services or if we are unable to enter into agreements with third parties, when necessary, our business and/or our potential growth could be adversely affected. in the event that such data and services are unavailable for our use or the cost of acquiring such data and services increases, our business could be adversely affected. 20 table of contents we rely on a third party for the performance of a significant portion of our worldwide information technology and operations functions, various services and assistance in certain integration projects. a failure to provide these functions, services or assistance in a satisfactory manner could have an adverse effect on our business. pursuant to the terms of an eight-year agreement, effective february 2013, we are dependent upon tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (collectively, tcs ) for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology and operations functions worldwide, the provision of a broad suite of information technology and business process services, including general and process consulting, product engineering, program management, application development and maintenance, coding, data management, finance and accounting services and human resource services, as well as assistance in integrating and centralizing multiple systems, technologies and processes on a global scale. the success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with tcs and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. if we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. long-term disruptions in the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and/or air service could adversely affect our business. our business is dependent on the use of the mail, telecommunication infrastructure and air service. long-term disruptions in one or more of these services, which could be caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, civil unrest and/or acts of terrorism, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. hardware and software failures, delays in the operation of our computer and communications systems or the failure to implement system enhancements may harm our business. our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. a failure of our network or data gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, client orders and day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. while many of our services have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place, we currently do not have full backup facilities everywhere in the world to provide redundant network capacity in the event of a system failure. despite any precautions we may take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. in addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. in the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. such a transfer could result in significant delays in our ability to deliver our services to our clients and could be costly to implement. additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements and improvements, or inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed, could damage our reputation and harm our business. finally, long-term disruptions in infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, civil unrest and/or acts of terrorism (particularly involving cities in which we have offices) could adversely affect our services. although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. the presence of our global technology and information center in florida heightens our exposure to hurricanes and tropical storms, which could disrupt our business. the technological data processing functions for certain of our u.s. operations are concentrated at our global technology and information center ( gtic ) at a single location in florida. our geographic concentration in florida heightens our exposure to a hurricane or tropical storm. these weather events could cause severe damage 21 table of contents to our property and technology and could cause major disruptions to our operations. although our gtic was built in anticipation of severe weather events and we have insurance coverage, if we were to experience a catastrophic loss, we may exceed our policy limits and/or we may have difficulty obtaining similar insurance coverage in the future. as such, a hurricane or tropical storm could have an adverse effect on our business. our services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information. if our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained, our services may be perceived as not being secure and panelists and survey respondents may hold us liable for disclosure of personal data, and clients and venture partners may hold us liable or reduce their use of our services. we store and transmit large volumes of proprietary information and data that contains personally identifiable information about individuals. security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability and our reputation could be damaged. for example, hackers or individuals who attempt to breach our network security could, if successful, misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. if we experience any breaches of our network security or sabotage, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate problems. we may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or saboteurs in a timely manner, or at all. techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target and, as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose current and potential clients. if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate employees, we may not be able to compete effectively and will not be able to expand our business. our success and ability to grow are dependent, in part, on our ability to hire, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of talented people, with the increasingly diverse skills needed to serve clients and expand our business, in many locations around the world. competition for highly qualified, specialized technical and managerial, and particularly consulting personnel is intense. recruiting, training and retention costs and benefits place significant demands on our resources. the inability to attract qualified employees in sufficient numbers to meet particular demands or the loss of a significant number of our employees could have an adverse effect on us, including our ability to obtain and successfully complete important client engagements and thus maintain or increase our revenues. changes in tax laws may adversely affect our reported results. changes in tax laws, regulations, related interpretations and tax accounting standards in the united states, the netherlands and other countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial results. for example, recent legislative proposals to reform u.s. taxation of non-u.s. earnings could have a material adverse effect on our financial results by subjecting a significant portion of our non-u.s. earnings to incremental u.s. taxation and/or by delaying or permanently deferring certain deductions otherwise allowed in calculating our u.s. tax liabilities. in addition, governments are increasingly considering tax law changes as a means to cover budgetary shortfalls resulting from the current economic environment. we face competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we are faced with a number of competitors in the markets in which we operate. some of our competitors in each market may have substantially greater financial marketing and other resources than we do and may in the future engage in aggressive pricing action to compete with us. although we believe we are currently able to compete effectively in each of the various markets in which we participate, we may not be able to do so in the future or be capable of maintaining or further increasing our current market share. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 22 table of contents we may be subject to antitrust litigation or government investigation in the future, which may result in an award of money damages or force us to change the way we do business. in the past, certain of our business practices have been investigated by government antitrust or competition agencies, and we have on several occasions been sued by private parties for alleged violations of the antitrust and competition laws of various jurisdictions. following some of these actions, we have changed certain of our business practices to reduce the likelihood of future litigation. although each of these material prior legal actions have been resolved, there is a risk based upon the leading position of certain of our business operations that we could, in the future, be the target of investigations by government entities or actions by private parties challenging the legality of our business practices. also, in markets where the retail trade is concentrated, regulatory authorities may perceive certain of our retail services as potential vehicles for collusive behavior by retailers or manufacturers. there can be no assurance that any such investigation or challenge will not result in an award of money damages, penalties or some form of order that might require a change in the way that we do business, any of which could adversely affect our revenue stream and/or profitability. the use of joint ventures, over which we do not have full control, could prevent us from achieving our objectives. we have conducted and will continue to conduct a number of business initiatives through joint ventures, some of which are or may be controlled by others. our joint venture partners might have economic or business objectives that are inconsistent with our objectives. our joint venture partners could go bankrupt, leaving us liable for their share of joint venture liabilities. although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. also, our joint venture partners could take appropriate actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. in addition, the terms of our joint venture agreements may limit our business opportunities. accordingly, the use of joint ventures could prevent us from achieving our intended objectives. failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions into our existing operations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we regularly evaluate opportunities for strategic growth through tuck-in acquisitions. potential issues associated with these acquisitions could include, among other things, our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of the acquisition within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with the acquisition; diversion of management attention from base strategies and objectives; and, with respect to acquisitions, our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized, including sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems among our company and the acquired company, motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees, conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company, consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures, consolidating sales and marketing operations, retaining existing customers and attracting new customers, identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets, coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the acquisitions. in addition, acquisitions outside of the united states increase our exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and compliance with foreign laws and regulations. if an acquisition is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 23 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in countries with currencies other than the u.s. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates; revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.29 to 1.00, $1.39 to 1.00 and $1.33 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations. we have operations in both our buy and watch segments in venezuela and our functional currency for these operations was the venezuelan bolivares fuertes. venezuela currency was considered hyperinflationary as of january 1, 2010 and further, in january 2010, venezuela currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate system was announced. we evaluated the new exchange rate system and concluded that our local currency transactions will be denominated in u.s. dollars effective as of january 1, 2010 and until venezuela currency is deemed to be non-hyperinflationary. we recorded a charge of $7 million associated with the currency devaluation in january 2010 in our foreign exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net line item in the consolidated statement of operations. in june 2010, a further revision to the currency exchange rate system was made and in december 2010, the government of venezuela eliminated the preferential exchange rate. neither the impact of the hyperinflationary accounting or the subsequent changes to the exchange rate system had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011, or 2010. in february 2013, venezuela currency was further devalued by 32%, which will result in a charge of approximately $12 million in the first quarter of 2013 in the foreign exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net line in the consolidated statement of operations. we evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. the constant currency presentation is a non-gaap financial measure, which excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, consistent with how we evaluate our performance. we calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency financial results using the current period foreign currency exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. this calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with gaap nor should such amounts be considered in isolation. 37 table of contents results of operations (years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010) the following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our consolidated statements of operations: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 revenues $ 5,612 $ 5,532 $ 5,126 cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 2,278 2,237 2,129 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,778 1,888 1,648 depreciation and amortization 520 529 558 restructuring charges 84 84 61 operating income 952 794 730 interest income 4 6 5 interest expense (413 ) (477 ) (660 ) loss on derivative instruments (1 ) (27 ) foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net (17 ) (9 ) 136 other expense, net (118 ) (209 ) (81 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates 408 104 103 (provision)/benefit for income taxes (140 ) (22 ) 46 equity in net income of affiliates 5 3 5 income from continuing operations 273 85 154 income/(loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 1 (22 ) net income 273 86 132 net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 2 2 net income attributable to nielsen stockholders $ 273 $ 84 $ 130 net income to adjusted ebitda reconciliation we define adjusted ebitda as net income or loss from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, stock-based compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items specifically described below. adjusted ebitda is not a presentation made in accordance with gaap, and our use of the term adjusted ebitda may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. we use adjusted ebitda to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. in addition to adjusted ebitda being a significant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-gaap financial information is viewed with gaap financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. adjusted ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating 38 table of contents performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. adjusted ebitda has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. the below table presents a reconciliation from net income to adjusted ebitda for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2012 2011 2010 net income $ 273 $ 86 $ 132 (income)/loss from discontinued operations, net (1 ) 22 interest expense, net 409 471 655 provision/(benefit) for income taxes 140 22 (46 ) depreciation and amortization 520 529 558 ebitda 1,342 1,107 1,321 equity in net income of affiliates (5 ) (3 ) (5 ) other non-operating expense/(income), net 135 219 (28 ) restructuring charges 84 84 61 stock-based compensation expense 34 27 18 other items (a) 12 112 44 adjusted ebitda $ 1,602 $ 1,546 $ 1,411 (a) for the year ended december 31, 2012, other items consists primarily of deal related costs. for the year ended december 31, 2011, other items primarily consist of sponsor advisory fees (including termination payments of $102 million), costs related to public offerings and other transaction-related costs. for the year ended december 31, 2010, other items primarily consist of sponsor advisory fees of $12 million, transformation initiative and other dual running costs of $16 million and consulting and other costs of $16 million associated with information technology infrastructure transformation and fees associated with certain consulting arrangements. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to the year ended december 31, 2011 revenues revenues increased 1.4% to $5,612 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $5,532 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or 3.9% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 2.5% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our buy segment increased 0.3% (3.9% on a constant currency basis) while revenues within our watch segment increased 3.3% (4.3% on a constant currency basis), and revenues within our expositions increased 2.2% (2.2% on a constant currency basis). cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 1.8% to $2,278 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $2,237 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or 4.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.7% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment increased 3.1% (7.0% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to investments in the continued global expansion of our services and higher retail measurement costs, substantially offset by favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our watch segment decreased 0.1% (an increase of 0.8% on a constant currency basis) as the impact of productivity initiatives and the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates offset increases in spending on product portfolio management initiatives. corporate costs decreased by approximately $3 million in 2012 as compared to 2011 driven by cost savings initiatives. 39 table of contents selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative ( sg&amp;a ) expenses decreased 5.8% to $1,778 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $1,888 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or a decrease of 3.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.3% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment decreased 1.9% (an increase of 1.3% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to the impact of productivity initiatives and the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which more than offset increases in client service costs and other investments associated with the global expansion of our services. costs within our watch segment increased 1.9% (3.1% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to increased investment in product development initiatives. corporate costs decreased by $88 million due to a $102 million charge for the termination and settlement of the sponsor advisory agreements recorded in 2011 offset by higher deal related fees in 2012. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $520 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 as compared to $529 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations decreased to $166 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $182 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 resulting from lower amortization on purchase price adjustments from the acquisition for certain assets that became fully amortized. the decline was primarily offset by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with the timing of capital expenditures versus the prior year. restructuring charges we recorded $84 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2012, of which $5 million related to property lease termination charges with the remainder relating to severance costs associated with employee terminations. we recorded $84 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2011 primarily related to severance costs associated with employee terminations. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2012 was $952 million compared to operating income of $794 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. operating income of $409 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 within our buy segment decreased from $432 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. operating income within our watch segment of $537 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 increased from $462 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. operating income within our expositions segment was $72 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 as compared to $60 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. corporate operating expenses decreased to $66 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $160 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. interest expense interest expense was $413 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $477 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the decline primarily related to the impact of debt retirements from our initial public offering of common stock in 2011, lower interest cost on our derivative instruments as well as our debt refinancing of our 11.50% senior notes and our 8.50% senior secured term loan with our 4.50% senior notes in the fourth quarter of 2012. foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net, represent the net gain or loss on revaluation of external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign 40 table of contents currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.29 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2012 as compared to $1.39 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2011. we incurred $17 million and $9 million in foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the loss in 2012 resulted primarily from fluctuations in certain currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. the loss in 2011 resulted primarily from fluctuations in certain currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio partially offset by the fluctuation in japanese yen as compared to the euro applied to a debenture loan. other expense, net the $118 million of other expense, net amount for the year ended december 31, 2012, consists of charges of $115 million associated with the redemption and retirement of our 11.50% senior notes due 2016 and the prepayment of our 8.50% senior secured term loan due 2017, a $6 million write-down of an investment in an equity security, and a $6 million charge associated with extinguishment of our term loan due in 2013, partially offset by a $10 million gain on the acquisition of a previously nonconsolidated business. the $209 million of other expense, net amount for the year ended december 31, 2011 includes charges of $231 million associated with the redemption and subsequent retirement of certain indebtedness through the use of proceeds generated from our initial public offering of common stock and concurrent offering of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds. the charges related to the associated redemption premiums and recognition of previously deferred financing costs. these charges were partially offset by $10 million of other gains primarily related to an acquisition of the remaining interest of a previously nonconsolidated subsidiary and $12 million of other gains, primarily relating to the settlement of certain patent infringement matters. income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $408 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $104 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 were 34% and 21%, respectively. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2012 was higher than the statutory expense rate due to the impact of distributions from foreign subsidiaries, tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, us state and local and other withholding taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities, the net release of valuation allowances and changes in deferred tax rates. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2011 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the favorable effect of financing activities, release of valuation allowances and the impact of the tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns. at december 31, 2012 and 2011, we had uncertain tax positions of $100 million and $96 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 of $40 million and $29 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $6 million to $14 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. 41 table of contents adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 3.6% to $1,602 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $1,546 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or 5.7% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 28.55% for the year ended december 31, 2012 from 27.95% for the year ended december 31, 2011. see results of operations (years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010) for the reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to the year ended december 31, 2010 revenues our revenues increased 7.9% to $5,532 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $5,126 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 5.6% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 2.3% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by a 9.7% increase within our buy segment (6.7% on a constant currency basis) and a 5.1% increase within our watch segment (3.8% on a constant currency basis), and a 6.5% increase in our expositions segment (6.5% on a constant currency basis). cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 5.1% to $2,237 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $2,129 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 2.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.3% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases resulted from a 9.7% increase within our buy segment (6.7% on a constant currency basis) due to the global expansion of our services. costs within our watch segment decreased 1.7% (3.2% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to productivity savings and product portfolio management initiatives in our television measurement business. corporate costs decreased by approximately $8 million in 2011 as compared to 2010 driven by cost savings initiatives. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative ( sg&amp;a ) expenses increased 14.6% to $1,888 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $1,648 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 11.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.8% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by an 11.4% increase within our buy segment (8.3% on a constant currency basis) due to increases in data acquisition and client service costs associated with the global expansion of our services as well as a 7.4% increase within our watch segment (5.5% on a constant currency basis) due to increased investment in audience measurement and advertiser solutions initiatives. corporate costs increased by approximately $78 million primarily as a result of a $102 million charge for the termination and settlement of the sponsor advisory agreements partially offset by cost savings initiatives. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $529 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $558 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations decreased to $182 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $215 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 resulting from lower amortization on purchase price adjustments from the acquisition for certain software and other assets that became fully amortized. this decline was partially offset by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with additional capital expenditures and acquisitions. restructuring charges other productivity initiatives we recorded $84 million in restructuring charges associated with productivity initiatives during the year ended december 31, 2011. these amounts primarily related to severance charges associated with employee terminations. 42 table of contents we recorded $70 million in restructuring charges associated with productivity initiatives during the year ended december 31, 2010. of these amounts, approximately $11 million related to property lease termination charges with the remainder relating to severance charges associated with employee terminations. transformation initiative the transformation initiative has been completed in all aspects as of the year ended december 31, 2011. we recorded net credits of $9 million in restructuring charges, associated with adjustments to previously established liabilities for employee severance and other benefits for the year ended december 31, 2010. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2011 was $794 million compared to operating income of $730 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. operating income of $432 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 within our buy segment increased from $414 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. operating income within our watch segment of $462 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 increased from $367 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. operating income within our expositions segment was $60 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $49 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. corporate operating expenses increased to $160 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $100 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. interest expense interest expense was $477 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to $660 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the decline related to the impact of debt retirements and lower interest cost on derivative instruments, partially offset by increases in interest cost associated with our senior secured term loans and from the issuance of our mandatory convertible subordinated bonds. loss on derivative instruments the loss on derivative instruments was $1 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to a loss of $27 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the reduction in losses resulted from the maturity of $2.3 billion in notional amount of interest rate swaps between february 2010 and november 2010 for which hedge accounting was discontinued in february 2009. foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net, represent the net gain or loss on revaluation of external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar have a significant effect on our operating results, particularly the euro. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.39 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $1.33 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2010. foreign currency exchange resulted in a $9 million loss for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to a gain of $136 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the loss in 2011 resulted primarily from fluctuations in certain currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio and the fluctuation in japanese yen as compared to the euro applied to our japanese yen denominated debenture. the gain in 2010 resulted primarily from the fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against the euro applied to certain of our euro-denominated senior secured term loans that were subsequently designated as net investment hedges and debentures that were subsequently retired as well as fluctuations in certain currencies including the euro and canadian dollar associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. other expense, net other expense, net of $209 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 includes charges of approximately $231 million associated with the redemption and subsequent retirement of certain indebtedness 43 table of contents through the use of proceeds generated from our initial public offering of common stock and concurrent offering of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds. the charges related to the associated redemption premiums and recognition of previously deferred financing costs. these charges were partially offset by $10 million of other gains primarily related to an acquisition of the remaining interest of a previously nonconsolidated subsidiary and $12 million of other gains, primarily relating to the settlement of patent infringement matters. other expense, net of $81 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 includes net charges of approximately $90 million associated with the redemption and subsequent retirement of all $870 million aggregate principal amount of our 10.00% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 105% of the principal amount redeemed as well as all 150 million aggregate principal amount of our 9% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 104.5% of the amount redeemed. the charges related to the associated redemption premiums and recognition of previously deferred financing costs. these charges were partially offset by gains attributable to business divestitures. income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $104 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to $103 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010 were 21% and 45% (benefit), respectively. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2011 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the favorable effect of financing activities, release of valuation allowances and the impact of the tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, partially offset by withholding taxes and provision for uncertain tax positions. the effective tax rate benefit for the year ended december 31, 2010 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the favorable effect of certain foreign currency exchange gains, financing activities, release of valuation allowances and the impact of the tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, partially offset by withholding taxes. at december 31, 2011 and 2010, we had uncertain tax positions of $96 million and $114 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2011 and 2010 of $29 million and $25 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $8 million to $19 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. equity in net income of affiliates equity in net income of affiliates was $3 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $5 million of income for the year ended december 31, 2010. adjusted ebitda our adjusted ebitda increased 9.6% to $1,546 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $1,411 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 7.8% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 27.95% for the year ended december 31, 2011 from 27.52% for the year ended december 31, 2010. see results of operations (years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010) for the reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda. 44 table of contents business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to the year ended december 31, 2011 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to the year ended december 31, 2011, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2012 year ended december 31, 2011 % variance 2012 vs. 2011 reported year ended december 31, 2011 constant currency % variance 2012 vs. 2011 constant currency revenues by segment buy $ 3,420 $ 3,409 0.3 % $ 3,293 3.9 % watch 2,009 1,944 3.3 % 1,927 4.3 % expositions 183 179 2.2 % 179 2.2 % total $ 5,612 $ 5,532 1.4 % $ 5,399 3.9 % buy segment revenues revenues increased 0.3% to $3,420 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $3,409 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or 3.9% on a constant currency basis. revenues from developing markets increased 1.3% (7.0% on a constant currency basis) and revenues from developed markets decreased 0.1% for the period (an increase of 2.4% on a constant currency basis). revenues from information services increased 2.4% to $2,595 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $2,534 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or 6.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 3.9% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues from developed markets increased 2.1% (4.9% on a constant currency basis) as growth in retail measurement services in north america was offset in part by a soft western europe market as well as the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues from developing markets increased 3.0% during the period (an increase of 9.1% on a constant currency basis) as growth driven by the continued expansion of both our retail measurement and consumer panel services to both new and existing clients and new markets was substantially offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues from insights services decreased 5.7% to $825 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $875 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or a decrease of 3.1% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. growth in north america of 2% was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and decreases in discretionary client spending in western europe. watch segment revenues revenues increased 3.3% to $2,009 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $1,944 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or 4.3% on a constant currency basis. television measurement grew 4.8% (5.4% on a constant currency basis) driven by increases in spending from both new and existing clients. expositions segment revenues revenues increased 2.2% to $183 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $179 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. these increases primarily relate to growth driven by certain sectors of existing shows. 45 table of contents business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2012 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 409 $ 60 $ 208 $ 10 $ (1 ) $ 686 watch 537 18 281 7 843 expositions 72 (1 ) 23 94 corporate and eliminations (66 ) 7 8 17 13 (21 ) total nielsen $ 952 $ 84 $ 520 $ 34 $ 12 $ 1,602 year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 432 $ 57 $ 198 $ 8 $ 4 $ 699 watch 462 15 299 5 781 expositions 60 2 25 87 corporate and eliminations (160 ) 10 7 14 108 (21 ) total nielsen $ 794 $ 84 $ 529 $ 27 $ 112 $ 1,546 (1) for the year ended december 31, 2012, other items consists primarily of deal related costs. for the year ended december 31, 2011, other items primarily consist of sponsor advisory fees (including termination payments of $102 million), costs related to public offerings and other transaction-related costs. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2012 year ended december 31, 2011 % variance 2012 vs. 2011 reported year ended december 31, 2011 constant currency % variance 2012 vs. 2011 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 686 $ 699 (1.9 )% $ 671 2.2 % watch 843 781 7.9 % 778 8.4 % expositions 94 87 8.0 % 87 8.0 % corporate and eliminations (21 ) (21 ) na (21 ) na total nielsen $ 1,602 $ 1,546 3.6 % $ 1,515 5.7 % 46 table of contents buy segment profitability operating income was $409 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 as compared to $432 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as the increase in revenue mentioned above was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, investments in developing markets expansion, increases in retail measurement costs, and higher depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 2.2% on a constant currency basis. watch segment profitability operating income was $537 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 as compared to $462 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase was primarily driven by the revenue performance discussed above and decreased depreciation and amortization expense. this performance was offset in part by increased investment in audience measurement initiatives, the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and higher restructuring charges. non-gaap business segment income increased 8.4% on a constant currency basis. expositions segment profitability operating income was $72 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 as compared to $60 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 driven primarily by the revenue performance discussed above, as well as lower restructuring charges and depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 8.0% on a constant currency basis. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $66 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 as compared to $160 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 due primarily to the $102 million charge for the termination and settlement of the sponsor advisory agreements in 2011, partially offset by additional deal related costs in 2012. business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to the year ended december 31, 2010 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue growth data for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to the year ended december 31, 2010, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2011 year ended december 31, 2010 % variance 2011 vs. 2010 reported year ended december 31, 2010 constant currency % variance 2011 vs. 2010 constant currency revenues by segment buy $ 3,409 $ 3,108 9.7 % $ 3,196 6.7 % watch 1,944 1,850 5.1 % 1,873 3.8 % expositions 179 168 6.5 % 168 6.5 % total $ 5,532 $ 5,126 7.9 % $ 5,237 5.6 % buy segment revenues revenues increased 9.7% to $3,409 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $3,108 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 6.7% on a constant currency basis driven by a 17.8% increase in developing markets (15.0% on a constant currency basis) and a 6.1% increase in developed markets (3.0% on a constant currency basis), as our customers continue to expand geographically and increase their spending on analytical services. 47 table of contents revenues from information services increased 11.2% to $2,534 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $2,278 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 7.9% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 3.3% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by 20.0% growth in developing markets (17.1% on a constant currency basis) as a result of continued expansion of both our retail measurement and consumer panel services to both new and existing customers and new markets. revenue from developed markets increased 7.5% (4.0% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to growth in retail measurement services in north america from new and existing customers. revenues from insights services increased 5.4% to $875 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $830 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 3.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these increases were driven by strong growth in our developing markets due to increases in customer discretionary spending on new product forecasting and other analytical services, which can be cyclical in nature. watch segment revenues revenues increased 5.1% to $1,944 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $1,850 million for the year ended december 31, 2010, or 3.8% on a constant currency basis. television measurement grew 4.7% driven by increases in spending from existing customers globally on both new and existing services. expositions segment revenues revenues increased 6.5% to $179 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 from $168 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. substantially all of this growth was driven by increases in exhibitors for certain sectors of existing shows with the remaining growth driven by the impact of acquisitions, net of certain show closures. 48 table of contents business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) operating income/(loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 432 $ 57 $ 198 $ 8 $ 4 $ 699 watch 462 15 299 5 781 expositions 60 2 25 87 corporate and eliminations (160 ) 10 7 14 108 (21 ) total nielsen $ 794 $ 84 $ 529 $ 27 $ 112 $ 1,546 year ended december 31, 2010 (in millions) operating income/(loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 414 $ 27 $ 202 $ 7 $ 6 $ 656 watch 367 15 317 3 2 704 expositions 49 2 27 78 corporate and eliminations (100 ) 17 12 8 36 (27 ) total nielsen $ 730 $ 61 $ 558 $ 18 $ 44 $ 1,411 (1) other items primarily consist of sponsor advisory fees (including termination payments of $102 million), costs related to our initial public offering and other deal related fees for the year ended december 31, 2011. for the year ended december 31, 2010, other items include transformation initiative and other dual running costs of $16 million, consulting and other costs of $16 million associated with information technology infrastructure transformation, fees associated with certain consulting arrangements and preparatory costs for our initial public offering of common stock and sponsor monitoring fees of $12 million. 49 table of contents (in millions) year ended december 31, 2011 year ended december 31, 2010 % variance 2011 vs. 2010 reported year ended december 31, 2010 constant currency % variance 2011 vs. 2010 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 699 $ 656 6.6 % $ 675 3.6 % watch 781 704 10.9 % 707 10.5 % expositions 87 78 11.5 % 78 11.5 % corporate and eliminations (21 ) (27 ) 22.2 % (26 ) 19.2 % total nielsen $ 1,546 $ 1,411 9.6 % $ 1,434 7.8 % buy segment profitability. operating income was $432 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $414 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 due primarily to the revenue performance mentioned above and the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. this performance was offset in part by higher restructuring charges and investments in developing markets expansion. non-gaap business segment income increased 3.6% on a constant currency basis. watch segment profitability operating income was $462 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $367 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, the impact of productivity initiatives and the decrease in depreciation and amortization expense associated with technology infrastructure initiatives and local people meters. non-gaap business segment income increased 10.5% on a constant currency basis. expositions segment profitability operating income was $60 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to $49 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 driven primarily by the revenue performance discussed above, as well as lower depreciation expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 11.5% on a constant currency basis. corporate expense and eliminations. operating loss was $160 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as compared to an operating loss of $100 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 due primarily to the $102 million charge for the termination and settlement of the sponsor advisory agreement as well as certain costs attributable to the initial public offering of our common stock, offset by lower restructuring charges. non-gaap business segment loss decreased 19.2% on a constant currency basis. liquidity and capital resources overview our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. we expect that our primary source of liquidity will continue to be cash generated from operations as well as existing cash. at december 31, 2012, cash and cash equivalents were $288 million and our total indebtedness was $6,584 million. in addition, as of december 31, 2012 we had $622 million available for borrowing under our senior secured revolving credit facility. our cash interest paid for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $384 million, $446 million and $531 million, respectively. of the $288 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $265 million was held in jurisdictions outside the u.s. and as a result there may be tax consequences if such amounts were moved out of these 50 table of contents jurisdictions or repatriated to the u.s. we regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our u.s. indebtedness and related obligations. we believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. we expect the cash flow from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, dividend payments and capital spending over the next year. in addition we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. 2012 capital markets and financing transactions in february 2012, our 30 million 6.75% emtn matured and was repaid and in april 2012, our 50 million variable rate emtn matured and was repaid. in august 2006, certain of our subsidiaries entered into a senior secured credit agreement that was amended and restated in june 2010 (the senior secured credit agreement ). in february 2012, the senior secured credit agreement was amended and restated to provide for a new five-year amortizing term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1,222 million, the proceeds from which were used to repay a corresponding amount of the existing senior secured term loans due 2013. we accounted for this as a new term loan due 2017 and an extinguishment of the amounts repaid under the existing term loan due 2013 and recorded a charge of $6 million associated with the combined elements of this transaction as a component of other expense, net in our consolidated financial statements. borrowings under this new term loan facility bear interest at a rate as determined by the type of borrowing, equal to either the base rate or libor rate, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. the applicable margin on base rate loans under this new term loan facility ranges from 0.75% to 1.50% based on a total leverage ratio. the applicable margin on libor loans under this new term loan facility ranges from 1.75% to 2.50% based on the total leverage ratio. loans under this new term loan facility mature in full in february 2017, but the maturity date shall be january 2016 if at such time there is more than $750 million in the aggregate of existing other term loans under the senior secured credit agreement with a maturity of may 2016. the loans under this new term loan facility are required to be repaid in an amount equal to 5% of the original principal amount in the first year after the closing date, 5% in the second year, 10% in the third year, 10% in the fourth year and 70% in the fifth year (with payments in each year being made in equal quarterly installments other than the fifth year, in which payments shall be equal to 3.33% of the original principal amount of loans in each of the first three quarters and the remaining principal balance due in february 2017 (unless repayment is required in january 2016 as indicated above)). loans under this new term loan facility are secured on a pari passu basis with our existing obligations under the senior secured credit agreement and senior secured loan agreement. in october 2012, we issued $800 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.50% senior notes due 2020 at par with cash proceeds of approximately $788 million, net of fees and expenses. further, in october 2012, we redeemed and subsequently retired all of our 11.50% senior notes due 2016 and prepaid our 8.50% senior secured term loan due 2017. the redemption and prepayment transactions resulted in a pre-tax charge of $115 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 recorded in other expense, net in our consolidated statements of operations. in november 2012, we entered into $500 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2012. these agreements fix the libor related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.57%. the commencement date of these interest rate swaps coincided with the $500 million aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in november 2012. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. 51 table of contents in december 2012, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire arbitron inc. (nyse: arb), an international media and marketing research firm, for $48 per share in cash (the transaction ). in addition, we entered into a commitment for an unsecured note or unsecured loan for up to $1,300 million (the commitment letter ) to fund the closing of the transaction. the transaction has been approved by the board of directors of both companies and is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory review. as of december 31, 2012, there were no borrowings outstanding under the commitment letter. financing transactions term loan facilities in addition to the $1,222 million term loan facility due 2017, the senior secured credit agreement also provides for two term loan facilities of $1,610 million and 227 million maturing in 2013 and four term loan facilities, including two dollar-denominated term loan facilities totaling $2,386 million and two euro-denominated term loan facilities totaling 273 million, maturing in 2016. total outstanding borrowings under the facility were $4,090 million at december 31, 2012. we are required to repay installments on the borrowings under the senior secured term loan facilities due 2016 in quarterly principal amounts of 0.25% of their original principal amount, with the remaining amount payable upon maturity. borrowings under the senior secured term loan facilities maturing in 2013 and 2016 bear interest at a rate as determined by the type of borrowing, equal to either (a) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (1) the federal funds rate plus 0.5% or (2) the prime rate or (b) a libor rate for the currency of such borrowings, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. the applicable margins for the senior secured term loans that mature in 2013 vary depending on our secured leverage ratio, from 2.00% to 2.25% in the case of libor loans and from 1.00% to 1.25% in the case of base rate loans. the applicable margins for two of the senior secured term loans that mature in 2016 are set at a fixed rate of 3.75% in the case of libor loans and 2.75% in the case of base rate loans, and the margin for the remaining 2016 term loans vary depending upon our total leverage and credit rating, from 3.25% to 3.75% in the case of libor loans and from 2.25% to 2.75% in the case of base rate loans. the senior secured credit agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business they conduct. these entities are restricted, subject to certain exceptions, in their ability to transfer their net assets to nielsen holdings n.v. such restricted net assets amounted to approximately $5.2 billion at december 31, 2012. in addition, these entities are required to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. neither nielsen holdings nor tnc b.v. is currently bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the credit agreement. the senior secured credit agreement also contain certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. certain significant financial covenants are described further below. obligations under the senior secured credit agreement are guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of tnc b.v. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities. 52 table of contents subsequent event in february 2013, the company received the requisite lender consents to amend its senior secured credit agreement to allow for the replacement of its existing class a, b and c term loans with a new class of term loans. the amendment is expected to close during the first quarter of 2013, subject to customary closing conditions, and will be documented in an amended and restated credit agreement. revolving credit facility the senior secured credit agreement also contains a senior secured revolving credit facility under which nielsen finance llc, tnc (us) holdings, inc., and nielsen holding and finance b.v. can borrow revolving loans. the revolving credit facility can also be used for letters of credit, guarantees and swingline loans. in march 2011, we amended the senior secured credit agreement to provide for the termination of the existing revolving credit commitments totaling $688 million, which had a final maturity date of august 2012, and their replacement with new revolving credit commitments totaling $635 million with a final maturity date of april 2016. the senior secured revolving credit facility is provided under the senior secured credit agreement and so contains covenants and restrictions as noted above with respect to the senior secured credit agreement under the term loan facilities section above. obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by the same entities that guarantee obligations under the senior secured credit agreement and senior secured loan agreement. as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, we had no borrowings outstanding, but had outstanding letters of credit of $13 million and $19 million, respectively. as of december 31, 2012, we had $622 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility. debenture loans the indentures governing certain of our debenture loans limit the majority of our subsidiaries ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. upon a change in control, we are required to make an offer to redeem all of the senior notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. the senior notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v. overview of 2011 and 2010 capital markets and financing transactions we entered into the following transactions during 2011: on january 31, 2011, we completed an initial public offering of 82,142,858 shares of our 0.07 par value common stock at a price of $23.00 per share, generating proceeds of approximately $1,801 million, net of $88 million of underwriter discounts. concurrent with our offering of common stock, we issued $288 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.25% mandatory convertible subordinated bonds due february 1, 2013 ( the bonds ), generating proceeds of approximately $277 million, net of $11 million of underwriter discounts. interest on the bonds are payable quarterly in arrears in february, may, august and november of each year, commencing in may 2011. the bonds were subject to mandatory conversion into 10,416,700 shares of our common stock on february 1, 2013 at a conversion rate of 1.8116 shares per $50.00 principal amount of the bonds. we utilized substantially all of the combined net proceeds of approximately $2,078 million associated with the aforementioned transactions to settle certain advisory agreements with the sponsors (see 53 table of contents note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, investments in affiliates and related party transactions for information regarding these advisory agreements) and redeem and retire certain issuances of our long-term indebtedness as follows: in february 2011, we paid approximately $201 million to redeem $164 million of our outstanding $467 million ($500 million aggregate principal amount) 11.50% senior discount notes due 2016 with a redemption cost of the stated rate applied to the principal amount being redeemed plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest to the principal amount. in february 2011, we paid approximately $129 million to redeem $107 million of our outstanding $307 million ($330 million aggregate principal amount) 11.625% senior discount notes due 2014 with a redemption cost of the stated rate applied to the principal amount being redeemed plus a proportionate amount of accrued interest to the principal amount. in february 2011, we paid approximately $1,133 million to redeem all of our outstanding $999 million ($1,070 million aggregate principal amount) 12.50% senior subordinated discount notes due 2016 at a price of 105.89% of the aggregate principal amount. in february and march 2011, we paid approximately $495 million to redeem all of our outstanding 11.125% senior discount debenture notes due 2016 at a price of 104.87% of the aggregate principal amount. we recorded a total debt extinguishment charge of approximately $145 million (net of tax of $86 million) in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended december 31, 2011 associated with these redemptions. the pre-tax amount of this charge was recorded in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of operations. in march 2011, we entered into an amendment (the amendment agreement ) to our amended and restated credit agreement, dated august 9, 2006 and amended and restated as of june 23, 2009 (the credit agreement ), among us, the other borrowers and guarantors party thereto, the lenders and other parties from time to time party thereto, and citibank, n.a., as administrative agent. the amendment agreement documents the terms of new revolving credit commitments obtained by us in connection with a revolving credit commitment extension offer. in connection with the amendment agreement, we terminated the existing revolving credit commitments totaling $688 million, which had a final maturity date of august 9, 2011, and replaced them with new revolving credit commitments totaling $635 million with a final maturity date of april 1, 2016. in august 2011, we entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year forward interest swap agreements with starting dates in september 2011. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.84%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in november 2011, we entered into a $125 million notional amount and a 125 million notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2011. these agreements fix the libor and euro libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 0.84% and 1.30%, respectively. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in december 2011, nielsen jpy 4,000 million 2.50% emtn matured and was repaid. during 2011 we elected to permanently repay $287 million of our existing term loans due august 2013. we entered into the following transactions during 2010: in march 2010, we entered into a three-year interest swap to fix the libor-related portion of interest rates for $250 million of the our variable-rate debt at 1.69%. this swap replaced the $500 million 54 table of contents notional amount interest rate swap that matured on february 9, 2010. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in may 2010, our 50 million variable rate emtn matured and was repaid. in august 2010, we completed a term loan extension offer in accordance with the terms of our 2006 senior secured credit facilities. in connection with completing the term loan extension offer and in order to document the terms of the new class c term loans, as of such date we entered into an amendment to the 2006 senior secured credit facilities (the 2010 amendment ). pursuant to the term loan extension offer and the 2010 amendment, approximately $1,495 million of our class a term loans (which mature august 2013) and approximately $5 million of our class b term loans (which mature may 2016) were exchanged for the same principal amount of new class c term loans. the new class c term loans mature on may 1, 2016 and bear a tiered floating interest rate of libor plus a margin of (x) 3.75% to the extent that nielsen finance llc total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2006 senior secured credit facilities) is greater than 5.0 to 1.0 and (y) 3.50% to the extent that nielsen finance llc total leverage ratio (as defined in the 2006 senior secured credit facilities) is less than or equal to 5.0 to 1.0. the foregoing margins are also subject to a decrease of 0.25% in the event and for so long as nielsen finance llc corporate credit and/or family rating, as applicable, from either s&amp;p or moody is at least bb- or ba3, respectively. the class c term loans will amortize in equal quarterly installments in aggregate annual amounts equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount. no optional prepayments of class c term loans may be made so long as any class a or class b term loans are outstanding. except as set forth in the 2010 amendment, the class c term loans shall have the same terms as the class b term loans. in october 2010, we issued $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2018 at an issue price of $745 million with cash proceeds of approximately $731 million, net of fees and expenses. in november 2010, we issued an additional $330 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2018 at an issue price of $340 million with cash proceeds of approximately $334 million, net of fees and expenses. we used the net proceeds from the aforementioned issuances, along with cash on hand, to fund a redemption of the remaining all of our 10% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 105% and all of our 9% senior notes due 2014 at a price of 104.5% in separate transactions in november and december 2010. the redemption and retirement of these notes resulted in a loss of approximately $90 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. in october and november 2010, we entered into an aggregate of $1 billion notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2010. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.72%. the commencement date of the interest rate swaps coincided with the $1 billion notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in november 2010. additionally, in november 2010 we entered into a $250 million notional amount three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in november 2011, which fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 1.26%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. we elected to permanently repay $75 million of our existing term loans due august 2013 during 2010. cash flows 2012 versus 2011 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $784 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, compared to $641 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2011 included the $102 million payment for the termination and settlement of the sponsor advisory agreements. excluding this payment, cash flows provided by operating activities increased $41 million as compared to the prior period. this increase was driven by the adjusted 55 table of contents ebitda performance described above and lower interest payments, substantially offset by the timing of vendor and employee payroll payments and timing of accounts receivable collections. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), increased by 1 day for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to a 1 day decrease for the year ended december 31, 2011. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $522 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, compared to $486 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the primary driver for the increased usage of cash from investing activities was the increase in acquisition payments. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $298 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, compared to $250 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the use of cash is described under the 2012 capital markets and financing transactions and financing transactions sections above. cash flows 2011 versus 2010 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $641 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, compared to $543 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the primary drivers for the increase in cash provided by operating activities was the growth in operating income excluding the impact of non-cash depreciation and amortization and lower interest payments. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), decreased by 1 day for the year ended december 31, 2011 compared to being relatively flat for the year ended december 31, 2010. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $486 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, compared to $365 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the drivers for the increase in the usage of cash from investing activities were the increase in acquisition payments and capital expenditures. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $250 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, compared to $263 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. the use of cash in both periods is described under the financing transactions section above. capital expenditures investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $358 million, $367 million and $334 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the decrease in capital expenditures related to significant investments in technology infrastructure development in 2011. dividends no dividends were declared or paid on our common stock during 2012 or 2011. in september 2010, we declared a special dividend of approximately 6 million ($7 million) in the aggregate, or 0.02 per share, to its existing stockholders, $5 million of which was in the form of a non-cash settlement of loans we have previously extended to luxco. on january 31, 2013, our board of directors adopted a cash dividend policy with the present intent to pay quarterly cash dividends on our outstanding common stock. the board also declared the first quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share, to be paid on march 20, 2013 to holders of record of our common stock on march 6, 2013. our dividend policy and the payment of future cash dividends are subject to the discretion of the board of directors. covenants attributable to tnc b.v. financial covenants contained in our credit agreement consist of a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio as related to our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its 56 table of contents restricted subsidiaries. the leverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of total net debt (as defined in the facility) at the end of any calendar quarter to covenant ebitda (as defined in the facility) for the four quarters then ended to exceed a specified threshold. the maximum permitted ratio is 6.25 to 1.0. the interest coverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of covenant ebitda at the end of any calendar quarter to consolidated interest expense (as defined in the credit agreement) for the four quarters then ended to be less than a specified threshold. the minimum permitted ratio is 1.50 to 1.0. failure to comply with either of these covenants would result in an event of default under our credit agreement unless waived by our senior credit lenders. an event of default under our credit agreement can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facility, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. as our failure to comply with the covenants described above can cause us to go into default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our credit agreement and these covenants are material to us. as of december 31, 2012, we were in full compliance with the covenants described above. pursuant to our credit agreement, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our credit agreement to the extent in any full calendar year we generate excess cash flow ( ecf ), as defined in the credit agreement. the percentage of ecf that must be applied as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda, as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. to the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ecf clause, such payment must generally occur on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. at december 31, 2012, our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda was less than 5.00 to 1.00 and therefore no mandatory repayment was required. our next ecf measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2013 results, and although the company does not expect to be required to issue any mandatory repayments in 2014 or beyond, it is uncertain at this time if any such payments will be required in future periods. commitments and contingencies outsourced services agreements in february 2013, we amended our amended and restated master services agreement (the msa ), dated as of october 1, 2007 with tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (jointly, tcs ). the term of the msa has been extended for an additional three years, so as to expire on december 31, 2020, with a one-year renewal option granted to nielsen. in addition, we have increased our commitment to purchase services from tcs (the minimum commitment ) from $1.0 billion to $2.5 billion over the life of the contract (from october 1, 2007), including a commitment to purchase at least $100 million in services per year (the annual commitment ). tcs charges under the separate global infrastructure services agreement between the parties will be credited against the minimum commitment and the annual commitment. tcs will globally provide us with professional services relating to information technology (including application development and maintenance), business process outsourcing, client service knowledge process outsourcing, management sciences, analytics, and financial planning and analytics. as we order specific services under the agreement, the parties will execute statements of work ( sows ) describing the specific scope of the services to be performed by tcs. the amount of the minimum commitment and the annual commitment may be reduced on the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the agreement or sows, as applicable. other contractual obligations our other contractual obligations include capital lease obligations (including interest portion), facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal and interest on debt and pension fund obligations. 57 table of contents at december 31, 2012, the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2012, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. therefore, $140 million of unrecognized tax benefits (which includes interest and penalties of $40 million) have been excluded from the contractual obligations table below. see note 13 income taxes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. payments due by period (in millions) total 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter capital lease obligations and other debt (a) $ 172 $ 24 $ 15 $ 14 $ 14 $ 14 $ 91 operating leases (b) 393 91 78 59 45 36 84 other contractual obligations (c) 239 150 47 26 12 2 2 long-term debt, including current portion (a) 6,184 341 344 150 2,732 733 1,884 interest (d) 1,291 295 265 245 172 123 191 pension fund obligations (e) 47 47 total $ 8,326 $ 948 $ 749 $ 494 $ 2,975 $ 908 $ 2,252 (a) other debt includes bank overdrafts of $5 million due within one year. these amounts exclude the $288 million of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds due february 1, 2013 as these bonds converted into shares of our common stock upon maturity and did not result in a cash payment of principal. our short-term and long-term debt obligations, including capital lease and other financing obligations, are described in note 10 long-term debt and other financing arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. (b) our operating lease obligations are described in note 15 commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. (c) other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreement, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. we generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. the amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. our remaining commitments as of december 31, 2012 under the outsourced services agreements with tcs have been included above on an estimated basis over the years within the contractual period in which we expect to satisfy our obligations. since the amendment to the tcs agreement occurred after december 31, 2012, it is not reflected above. (d) interest payments consist of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt based on libor as of december 31, 2012. interest payments associated with the $288 million of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds due february 1, 2013 have been included as it is assumed such payments will be made in cash. (e) our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $64 million, $54 million and $30 million during 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. future minimum pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2013. see note 9 pensions and other post-retirement benefits to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations. 58 table of contents guarantees and other contingent commitments at december 31, 2012, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements: sub-lease guarantees. we provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. to date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded. letters of credit. letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $13 million at december 31, 2012. legal proceedings and contingencies we are subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. while the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. however, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. off-balance sheet arrangements except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources. summary of recent accounting pronouncements fair value measurement in may 2011, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued an accounting update that amends accounting standards codification ( asc ) 820 fair value measurement regarding fair value measurements and disclosure requirements. the amendments were effective for us as of january 1, 2012. the adoption of this update did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. presentation of comprehensive income in june 2011, the fasb issued an accounting update that amends asc 220 presentation of comprehensive income ( asc 220 ), which eliminates the option to present other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of equity. we have presented the items of net income and other comprehensive income in two separate but consecutive statements and this amended guidance did not have any other impact on our consolidated financial statements. in february 2013, the fasb issued an accounting update that amends asc 220, which requires public companies to present the effect of significant amounts reclassified from each component of accumulated other comprehensive income and the income statement line items affected by the reclassification on the face of the financial statements or in a single footnote. this amendment is effective for us for interim and annual reporting periods in 2013. the adoption of this update is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. testing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment in september 2011 and july 2012, the fasb issued accounting updates that amend asc 350 goodwill and other intangible assets , which were intended to simplify impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite- 59 table of contents lived intangible assets by adding a qualitative review step to assess whether the previously required quantitative impairment analysis is necessary. the amended guidance permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying value. if it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the prescribed two-step impairment test. otherwise, the two-step impairment test is not required. we considered the updated guidance in our october 1, 2012 annual impairment test. the adoption of these updates did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. we actively monitor these exposures. historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. our objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. it is our policy not to trade in financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate globally and we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure. foreign currency translation risk is the risk that exchange rate gains or losses arise from translating foreign entities statements of earnings and balance sheets from functional currency to our reporting currency (the u.s. dollar) for consolidation purposes. translation risk exposure is managed by creating natural hedges in our financing or by using derivative financial instruments aimed at offsetting certain exposures in the statement of earnings or the balance sheet. we do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. the table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011: u.s. dollars euro other currencies year ended december 31, 2012 revenues 52 % 12 % 36 % operating costs 50 % 13 % 37 % year ended december 31, 2011 revenues 50 % 14 % 36 % operating costs 50 % 15 % 35 % based on the year ended december 31, 2012, a one cent change in the u.s. dollar/euro exchange rate would have impacted revenues by approximately $7 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income. we have operations in both our buy and watch segments in venezuela and our functional currency for these operations was the venezuelan bolivares fuertes. venezuela currency was considered hyperinflationary as of january 1, 2010 and further, in january 2010, venezuela currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate system was announced. we evaluated the new exchange rate system and concluded that our local currency transactions will be denominated in u.s. dollars effective as of january 1, 2010 and until venezuela 60 table of contents currency is deemed to be non-hyperinflationary. we recorded a charge of $7 million associated with the currency devaluation in january 2010 in our foreign exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net line item in the consolidated statement of operations. in june 2010, a further revision to the currency exchange rate system was made and in december 2010, the government of venezuela eliminated the preferential exchange rate. neither the impact of the hyperinflationary accounting or the subsequent changes to the exchange rate system had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2012 or 2011. in february 2013, venezuela currency was further devalued by 32% which will result in a charge of approximately $12 million in the first quarter of 2013 in the foreign exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net line in our consolidated statement of operations. effective in july 2010, we designated our euro denominated variable rate senior secured term loans due 2013 and 2016 as non-derivative hedges of our net investment in a european subsidiary. subsequent to this designation gains or losses attributable to fluctuations in the euro as compared to the u.s. dollar associated with this debenture were recorded to currency translation adjustment within stockholders equity, net of income tax. we recorded losses of $43 million (net of tax of $17 million) to currency translation adjustment during the second half of 2010 associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates attributable to these loans and therefore no gains or losses were recorded within our net income during that period. our net income reflected foreign currency exchange gains of $96 million for the year ended december 31, 2010 related to these loans. interest rate risk we continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerations in the u.s. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. at december 31, 2012, we had $4,090 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities, of which $2,540 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. a one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $16 million ($41 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). in november 2012, we entered into $500 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2012. these agreements fix the libor related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a weighted average rate of 0.57%. the commencement date of these interest rate swaps coincided with the $500 million aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in november 2012. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in november 2011, we entered into a $125 million notional amount and a 125 million notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2011. these agreements fix the libor and euro libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 0.84% and 1.30%, respectively. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in august 2011, we entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year forward interest swap agreements with starting dates in september 2011. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.84%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in october and november 2010, we entered into $1 billion in aggregate notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2011. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.72%. the commencement date of the interest rate swaps coincides with the $1 billion notional amount of interest rate 61 table of contents swaps that matured in november 2011. additionally, in november 2010, we entered into a $250 million notional amount three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in november 2011, which fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 1.26%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in march 2010, we entered into a three-year interest swap to fix the libor-related portion of interest rates for $250 million of our variable-rate debt at 1.69%. this swap replaced the $500 million notional amount interest rate swap that matured in february 2010. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. we do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transactions were executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in countries with currencies other than the u.s. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates; revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.33 to 1.00, $1.29 to 1.00 and $1.39 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations. we have operations in both our buy and watch segments in venezuela and the functional currency for these operations was the venezuelan bolivares fuertes. venezuela's currency was considered hyperinflationary as of january 1, 2010 and further, in january 2010, venezuela's currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate system was announced. in 2010, we evaluated the new exchange rate system and concluded that the local currency t ransactions will be denominated in u.s. dollars effective as of january 1, 2010 and until venezuela's currency is deemed to be non-hyperinflationary. 32 in february 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency by 32%. the official exchange rate moved from 4.30 to 6.30 and the regulated system of transactions with securities in foreign currency market was suspended. as a result of this change, we recorded a charge of $12 million in 2013 in foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net in t he consolidated statement of operations primarily reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities. in january 2014, venezuela announced the establishment of a dual exchange rate system. a rate of 6.3 venezuelan bolivares fuertes to the us dollar will be applied to priority sectors, such as food and medicine, while other sectors of the economy will apply an exchange rate determined based on the results of the venezuelan central bank's system of weekly currency auctions. nielsen is in the process of analyzing the impact, if any, of this change on its 2014 consolidated financial statements. as of december 31, 2013, net monetary assets subject to revaluation in venezuela were $38 million. we evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. the constant currency presentation is a non-gaap financial measure, which excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, consistent with how we evaluate our performance. we calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency finan cial results using the current period foreign currency exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. this calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with gaap nor should such amounts be considered in isolation. results of operations years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 the following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our consolidated statements of operations: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 2011 revenues $ 5,703 $ 5,407 $ 5,328 cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 2,398 2,225 2,188 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,815 1,724 1,829 depreciation and amortization 510 493 502 restructuring charges 119 85 83 operating income 861 880 726 interest income 2 4 6 interest expense (309 ) (390 ) (449 ) foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net (25 ) (17 ) (9 ) other expense, net (9 ) (118 ) (210 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates 520 359 64 provision for income taxes (91 ) (122 ) (6 ) equity in net income of affiliates 2 5 3 income from continuing operations 431 242 61 income from discontinued operations, net of tax 305 30 26 net income 736 272 87 net (loss)/income attributable to noncontrolling interests (4 ) (1 ) 3 net income attributable to nielsen stockholders $ 740 $ 273 $ 84 net income to adjusted ebitda reconciliation we define adjusted ebitda as net income or loss from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, stock-based compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items specifically described below. adjusted ebitda is not a presentation made in accordance with gaap, and our use of the term adjusted ebitda may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. 33 we use adjusted ebitda to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. in addition to adjusted ebitda being a si gnificant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-gaap financial information is viewed with gaap financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. adjusted ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. adjusted ebitda has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered i n isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. the below table presents a reconciliation from net income to adjusted ebitda for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 2011 net income $ 736 $ 272 $ 87 income from discontinued operations, net (305 ) (30 ) (26 ) interest expense, net 307 386 443 provision for income taxes 91 122 6 depreciation and amortization 510 493 502 ebitda 1,339 1,243 1,012 equity in net income of affiliates (2 ) (5 ) (3 ) other non-operating expense, net 34 135 219 restructuring charges 119 85 83 stock-based compensation expense 47 34 27 other items (a) 80 12 112 adjusted ebitda $ 1,617 $ 1,504 $ 1,450 (a) for the year ended december 31, 2013, other items consist primarily of one-time items associated with the acquisition of arbitron, including non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction-related costs. for the year ended december 31, 2012, other items consist primarily of transaction-related costs. for the year ended december 31, 2011, other items primarily consist of sponsor advisory fees (including termination payments of $102 million), costs related to public offerings and other transaction-related costs. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to the year ended december 31, 2012 revenues revenues increased 5.5 % to $5,703 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $5,407 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or 6.4% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 0.9% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact from the acquisition of arbitron, revenues increased 3.0% (3.9% on a constant currency basis). revenues within our buy segment increased 1.9% (3.1% on a constant currency basis) while revenues within our watch segment increased 11.2% (11.7% on a constant currency basis). excluding the impact from the acquisition of arbitron, revenues within our watch segment increased 4.7% (5.2% on a constant currency basis). cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 7.8 % to $2,398 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $2,225 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or 8.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.7% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment increased 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to investments in the continued global expansion of our services as well as investment in our footprint in the emerging markets. costs within our watch segment increased 12.6% (13.2% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the arbitron acquisition on september 30, 2013 and spending on product portfolio management initiatives. corporate costs increased by approximately $3 million in 2013 as compared to 2012. 34 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative ( sg&amp;a ) expenses in creased 5.3% to $1,815 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $1,724 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or an increase of 6.1% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.8% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment increased 0.8 % (1.7% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to increases in client service costs and other investments associated with the global expansion of our services. costs within our watch segment increased 14.6% (15.5% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the arbitron acquisition on september 30, 2013. corporate costs increased by $21 million due to higher transaction-related costs. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations was $510 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 as compared to $493 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase was primarily driven by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with the tangible and intangible assets acquired as part of the arbitron acquisition on september 30, 2013. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $162 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $145 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 resulting from higher amortization on the assets acquired as part of the arbitron acquisition on september 30, 2013. restructuring charges we recorded $119 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2013, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives and contract termination costs. we recorded $85 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2012, of which $5 million related to property lease termination charges with the remainder relating to severance costs associated with employee terminations. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2013 was $ 861 million compared to operating income of $880 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. operating income of $399 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 within our buy segment decreased from $403 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. operating income within our watch segment of $570 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 increased from $553 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. corporate operating expenses increased to $108 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $76 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. interest expense interest expense was $309 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $390 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the decline primarily related to our refinancing of the 11.5% senior notes and our 8.5% senior secured term loan in the fourth quarter of 2012, the impact of our refinancing of the class a, b, and c senior secured term loans in february 2013, the maturity of the mandatory convertible debt in february 2013 and the refinancing of the 11.625% senior notes in october 2013. foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net foreign currency exchange transaction losses , net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.33 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2013 as compared to $1.29 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2012. we incurred $25 million and $17 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the loss in 2013 resulted primarily from the devaluation of the venezuela bolivars fuertes as discussed in the foreign currency section of the factors affecting nielsen's financial results and the fluctuations of certain foreign currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. the loss in 2012 resulted primarily from fluctuations in certain currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. other expense, net the $9 million of other expense, net for the year ended december 31, 2013, consists primarily of the write-off of deferred financing costs and other costs of $12 million associated with the amendment to our senior secured credit agreement, charges of $12 million associated with the unused bridge loan terminated as part of the arbitron acquisition and charges of approximately $8 million related to the redemption of all of our 11.625% senior notes due 2014, partially offset by the gain of $24 million from the step acquisition of scarborough. 35 the $118 million of other expense, net for the year ended december 31, 2012, consists of charges of $115 million associated with the redemption and retirement of our 11.50% senior notes due 2016 and the prepayment of our 8.50% senior secured term loan due 2017, a $6 million write-down of an investment in an equity security, and a $6 million charge associated with extinguishment of our term loan due in 2013, partially offset by a $10 milli on gain on the acquisition of a previously nonconsolidated business. income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $520 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $359 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 were 18 % and 34%, respectively. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2013 was lower than the statutory expense rate due to the favorable impact of certain financing activities and the net release of valuation allowances partially offset by an increase in accruals for our uncertain tax position and tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, us state and local and other withholding taxes. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2012 was higher than the statutory expense rate due to the impact of distributions from foreign subsidiaries, tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, us state and local and other withholding taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities, the net release of valuation allowances and changes in deferred tax rates. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $475 million and $409 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 of $52 million and $45 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $ 47 million to $57 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 7.5 % to $1,617 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $1,504 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or 8.7% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 28.35% for the year ended december 31, 2013 from 27.82% for the year ended december 31, 2012. see results of operations (years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011) for the reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to the year ended december 31, 2011 revenues revenues increased 1.5 % to $5,407 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $5,328 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or 4.1% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 2.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our buy segment were flat (an increase of 3.6% on a constant currency basis) while revenues within our watch segment increased 3.9% (4.8% on a constant currency basis). cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 1. 7% to $2,225 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $2,188 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or 4.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.8% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment increased 2.4% (6.4% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to investments in the continued global expansion of our services and higher retail measurement costs, substantially offset by favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our watch segment increased 1.0% (1.9% on a constant currency basis) as increases in spending on product portfolio management initiatives more than offset the impact of productivity initiatives and the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. corporate costs decreased by approximately $3 million in 2012 as compared to 2011 driven by cost savings initiatives. 36 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative ( sg&amp;a ) expenses decreased 5.7 % to $1,724 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $1,829 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or a decrease of 3.4% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.3% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment decreased 1.4% (an increase of 1.8% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to the impact of productivity initiatives and the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which more than offset increases in client service costs and other investments associated with the global expansion of our services. costs within our watch segment were flat (an increase of 1.0% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to increased investment in product development initiatives offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. corporate costs decreased by $88 million due to a $102 million charge for the termination and settlement of the sponsor advisory agreements recorded in 2011 offset by higher transaction-related fees in 2012. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations was $493 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 as compared to $502 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations decreased to $145 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $161 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 resulting from lower amortization on purchase price adjustments from the acquisition for certain assets that became fully amortized. the decline was primarily offset by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with the timing of capital expenditures versus the prior year. restructuring charges we recorded $85 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2012, of which $5 million related to property lease termination charges with the remainder relating to severance costs associated with employee terminations. we recorded $83 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2011 primarily related to severance costs associated with employee terminations. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2012 was $880 million compared to operating income of $726 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. operating income of $403 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 within our buy segment decreased from $424 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. operating income within our watch segment of $553 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 increased from $472 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. corporate operating expenses decreased to $76 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $170 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. interest expense interest expense was $390 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $449 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the decline primarily related to the impact of debt retirements from our initial public offering of common stock in 2011, lower interest cost on our derivative instruments as well as our debt refinancing of our 11.50% senior notes and our 8.50% senior secured term loan with our 4.50% senior notes in the fourth quarter of 2012. foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net gain or loss on revaluation of certain external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.29 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2012 as compared to $1.39 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2011. we incurred $17 million and $9 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the loss in 2012 resulted primarily from fluctuations in certain currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. the loss in 2011 resulted primarily from fluctuations in certain currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio partially offset by the fluctuation in japanese yen as compared to the euro applied to a debenture loan. 37 other expense, net the $118 million of other expense, net amount for the year ended december 31, 2012, consists of charges of $115 million associated with the redemption and retirement of our 11.50% senior notes due 2016 and the prepayment of our 8.50% senior secured term loan due 2017, a $6 million write-down of an investment in an equity security, and a $6 million charge associated with extinguishment of our term loan due in 2013, partially offset by a $10 million gain on the acquisition of a previously nonconsolidated business. the $210 million of other expense, net amount for the year ended december 31, 2011 includes charges of $231 million associated with the redemption and subsequent retirement of certain indebtedness through the use of proceeds generated from our initial public offering of common stock and concurrent offering of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds. the charges related to the associated redemption premiums and recognition of previously deferred financing costs. these charges were partially offset by $10 million of other gains primarily related to an acquisition of the remaining interest of a previously nonconsolidated subsidiary and $12 million of other gains, primarily relating to the settlement of certain patent infringement matters. income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $359 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $64 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 were 34% and 9%, respectively. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2012 was higher than the statutory expense rate due to the impact of distributions from foreign subsidiaries, tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, us state and local and other withholding taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities, the net release of valuation allowances and changes in deferred tax rates. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2011 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the favorable effect of financing activities, release of valuation allowances and the impact of the tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns. at december 31, 2012 and 2011, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $409 million and $370 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 of $45 million and $33 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $ 6 million to $14 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting p rinciples, or interpretations thereof. adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 3.7 % to $1,504 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $1,450 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or 6.0% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 27.82% for the year ended december 31, 2012 from 27.21% for the year ended december 31, 2011. see results of operations (years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011) for the reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda. 38 business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to the year ended december 31, 2012 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to the year ended december 31, 2012, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2013 year ended december 31, 2012 % variance 2013 vs. 2012 reported year ended december 31, 2012 constant currency % variance 2013 vs. 2012 constant currency revenues by segment buy (b ) $ 3,406 $ 3,341 1.9 % $ 3,305 3.1 % watch (a) (b ) 2,297 2,066 11.2 % 2,056 11.7 % total $ 5,703 $ 5,407 5.5 % $ 5,361 6.4 % (a) the watch segment includes the arbitron (nielsen audio) results for the fourth quarter of 2013. excluding the impact from the arbitron acquisition, total nielsen revenue was $5,569 million, an increase of 3.0% (3.9% on a constant currency basis) and the watch segment revenue was $2,163 million, an increase of 4.7% (5.2% on a constant currency basis). (b) during the fourth quarter of 2013, to conform to a change in management reporting, we reclassified two products from the buy segment to the watch segment. the business segment results have been reclassified for comparison purposes for all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. buy segment revenues revenues increased 1.9% to $3,406 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $3,341 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or 3.1% on a constant currency basis. revenues from developing markets increased 3.5% (7.2% on a constant currency basis) and revenues from developed markets incr eased 1.2% for the period (1.0% on a constant currency basis). revenues from information services increased 2.0% to $2,648 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $2,595 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or 3.0% on a constant currency basis. revenues from developing markets increased 2.7% (6.6% on a constant currency basis) due to continued expansion of our retail measurement and services to both new and existing customers. revenues from developed markets increased 1.7% (1.4% on a con stant currency basis). growth was impacted by no longer benefiting from the additional retail measurement coverage in the u.s. driven by wal-mart and softness in western europe. revenues from insights services increased 1.6% to $758 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $746 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, (3.1% on a constant currency basis) driven by increased demand for our analytical services in the developing countries around the world. watch segment revenues revenues increased 11.2% to $2,297 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $2,066 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or 11.7% on a constant currency basis. excluding the impact from the arbitron acquisition, revenues increased 4.7% (5.2% on a constant currency basis). audience measurement revenue, excluding arbitron (nielsen audio), grew 5.2% (5.7% on a constant currency basis) driven by increases in spending from existing customers, international expansion of our services to both new and existing customers, accelerated growth of our new digital products and increased growth in ad solutions. business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 201 3 and 2012, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of 39 management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2013 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 399 $ 47 $ 199 $ 14 $ 1 $ 660 watch 570 55 302 11 51 989 corporate and eliminations (108 ) 17 9 22 28 (32 ) total nielsen $ 861 $ 119 $ 510 $ 47 $ 80 $ 1,617 year ended december 31, 2012 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 403 $ 58 $ 197 $ 10 $ 8 $ 676 watch 553 20 285 7 (9 ) 856 corporate and eliminations (76 ) 7 11 17 13 (28 ) total nielsen $ 880 $ 85 $ 493 $ 34 $ 12 $ 1,504 (1) for the year ended december 31, 2013, other items consist primarily of one-time items associated with the acquisition of arbitron, including non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction-related costs. for the year ended december 31, 2012, other items consist primarily of transaction-related costs. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2013 year ended december 31, 2012 % variance 2013 vs. 2012 reported year ended december 31, 2012 constant currency % variance 2013 vs. 2012 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 660 $ 676 (2.4 )% $ 663 (0.5 )% watch 989 856 15.5 % 851 16.2 % corporate and eliminations (32 ) (28 ) na (27 ) na total nielsen $ 1,617 $ 1,504 7.5 % $ 1,487 8.7 % buy segment profitability operating income was $ 399 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 as compared to $403 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 as the increase in revenue mentioned above was more than offset by investments in developing markets expansion and increases in retail measurement costs. non-gaap business segment income decreased 0.5% on a constant currency basis. watch segment profitability operating income was $570 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 as compared to $553 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense and restructuring charges resulting from the arbitron acquisition. non-gaap business segment income increased 16.2% on a constant currency basis. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $108 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 as compared to $76 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 due to increases in restructuring charges, transaction-related costs and stock-based compensation expense. 40 business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to the year ended december 31, 2011 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue growth data for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to the year ended december 31, 2011, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2012 year ended december 31, 2011 % variance 2012 vs. 2011 reported year ended december 31, 2011 constant currency % variance 2012 vs. 2011 constant currency revenues by segment buy $ 3,341 $ 3,339 0.1 % $ 3,224 3.6 % watch 2,066 1,989 3.9 % 1,971 4.8 % total $ 5,407 $ 5,328 1.5 % $ 5,195 4.1 % buy segment revenues revenues increased 0.1 % to $3,341 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $3,339 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or 3.6% on a constant currency basis. revenues from developing markets increased 0.5% (6.3% on a constant currency basis) and revenues from developed markets decreased 0.2% for the period (an increase of 2.3% on a constant currency basis). revenues from information services increased 2.4% to $2,595 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $2,534 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or 6.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 3.9% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues from developing markets increased 3.0% during the period (an increase of 9.1% on a constant currency basis) as growth driven by the continued expansion of both our retail measurement and consumer panel services to both new and existing clients and new markets was substantially offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues from developed markets increased 2.1% (4.9% on a constant currency basis) as growth in retail measurement services in north america was partially offset by a soft western europe market as well as the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues from insights services decreased 7.3 % to $746 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $805 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or a decrease of 4.6% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.7% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. growth in north america of 2% was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and decreases in discretionary client spending in western europe. watch segment revenues revenues increased 3.9 % to $2,066 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 from $1,989 million for the year ended december 31, 2011, or 4.8% on a constant currency basis. audience measurement grew 5.1% (6.0% on a constant currency basis) driven by increases in spending from both new and existing clients. 41 business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a pr esentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2012 (in millions) operating income/(loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 403 $ 58 $ 197 $ 10 $ 8 $ 676 watch 553 20 285 7 (9 ) 856 corporate and eliminations (76 ) 7 11 17 13 (28 ) total nielsen $ 880 $ 85 $ 493 $ 34 $ 12 $ 1,504 year ended december 31, 2011 (in millions) operating income/(loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 424 $ 57 $ 192 $ 8 $ 4 $ 685 watch 472 15 300 5 792 corporate and eliminations (170 ) 11 10 14 108 (27 ) total nielsen $ 726 $ 83 $ 502 $ 27 $ 112 $ 1,450 (1) for the year ended december 31, 2012, other items consist primarily of transaction-related costs. other items primarily consist of sponsor advisory fees (including termination payments of $102 million), costs related to our initial public offering and other transaction-related costs for the year ended december 31, 2011. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2012 year ended december 31, 2011 % variance 2012 vs. 2011 reported year ended december 31, 2011 constant currency % variance 2012 vs. 2011 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 676 $ 685 (1.3 )% $ 657 2.9 % watch 856 792 8.2 % 789 8.5 % corporate and eliminations (28 ) (27 ) na (27 ) na total nielsen $ 1,504 $ 1,450 3.7 % $ 1,419 6.0 % buy segment profitability. operating income was $403 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 as compared to $424 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 as the increase in revenues mentioned above was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, investments in developing markets expansion, increases in retail measurement costs, and higher depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 2.9% on a constant currency basis. 42 watch segment profitability operating income was $5 53 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 as compared to $472 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase was primarily driven by the revenue performance discussed above and decreased depreciation and amortization expense. this performance was offset in part by increased investment in audience measurement initiatives, the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and higher restructuring charges. non-gaap business segment income increased 8.5% on a constant currency basis. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $76 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 as compared to $170 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 due primarily to the $102 million charge for the termination and settlement of the sponsor advisory agreements in 2011, partially offset by additional transaction-related costs in 2012. liquidity and capital resources we have consistently generated strong cash flows from operations, providing a source of funds ranging between $641 million and $901 million per year over the past three years. we provide for additional liquidity through several sources including, maintaining an adequate cash balance, access to global funding sources and a committed revolving credit facility. the following table provides a summary of the major sources of liquidity for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011: (in millions) 2013 2012 2011 net cash from operating activities $ 901 $ 784 $ 641 cash and short-term marketable securities $ 564 $ 288 $ 319 revolving credit facility $ 635 $ 635 $ 635 of the $564 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $459 million was held in jurisdictions outside the u.s. and as a result there may be tax consequences if such amounts were moved out of these jurisdictions or repatriated to the u.s. we regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our u.s. indebtedness and rel ated obligations. during 2013, we continued to focus on de-levering our balance sheet, extending debt maturities and reducing cash interest expense through the re-pricing of $3 billion of our term loan facility, the issuance of $625 million of 5.50% senior notes and the redemption of our remaining high-yield debt. the below table illustrates the results of these efforts through the decrease in our weighted average interest rate and cash paid for interest over the last three years. 2013 2012 2011 weighted average interest rate 4.28 % 5.02 % 5.80 % cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized (in millions) $ 304 $ 384 $ 446 as a result of the strong cash flow performance and the aforementioned initiatives, in 2013 our board of directors adopted a cash dividend policy with the present intent to pay quarterly cash dividends on our outstanding common stock and approved a share repurchase program for up to $500 million of our outstanding common stock. during 2013, we p aid $265 million in cash dividends and repurchased 289,839 shares of our common stock for $11 million. the dividend policy and the payment of future cash dividends are subject to the discretion of our board of directors. our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. we believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. we expect the cash flo w from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, dividend payments and capital spending over the next year. in addition we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. 43 long-term borrowings the following table provides a summary of our outstanding long-term borrowings as of december 31, 2013: (in millions) weighted interest rate carrying amount $2,532 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 2.92%) due 2016 $ 2,507 $1,222 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 2.17%) due 2017 1,115 289 million senior secured term loan (euro libor based variable rate of 3.15%) due 2016 394 total senior secured credit facilities (with weighted average interest rate) 2.89 % 4,016 $1,080 million 7.75% senior debenture loan due 2018 1,083 $800 million 4.5% senior debenture loan due 2020 800 $625 million 5.5% senior debenture loan due 2020 625 total debenture loans (with weighted average interest rate) 6.51 % 2,508 other loans 5 total long-term debt 4.28 % 6,529 capital lease and other financing obligations 111 total debt and other financing arrangements 6,640 less: current portion of long-term debt, capital lease and other financing obligations and other short-term borrowings 148 non-current portion of long-term debt and capital lease and other financing obligations $ 6,492 term loan facilities in august 2006, certain of our subsidiaries entered into the senior secured credit agreement that was amended and restated in june 2009, february 2012 and february 2013. the senior secured credit agreement provides for term loan facilities as shown in the table above. in february 2012, the senior secured credit agreement was amended and restated to provide for a new five-year amortizing term loan facility in an aggregate pri ncipal amount of $1,222 million. borrowings under this new term loan facility bear interest at a rate as determined by the type of borrowing, equal to either the base rate or libor rate, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. the applicable margin on base rate loans under this new term loan facility ranges from 0.75% to 1.50% based on a total leverage ratio. the applicable margin on libor loans under this new term loan facility ranges from 1.75% to 2.50% based on the total leverage ratio. loans under this new term loan facility mature in full in february 2017, but the maturity date shall be january 2016 if at such time there is more than $750 million in the aggregate of existing other term loans under the senior secured credit agreement with a maturity of may 2016. the loans under this new term loan facility are required to be repaid in an amount equal to 5% of the original principal amount in the first year after the closing date, 5% in the second year, 10% in the third year, 10% in the fourth year and 70% in the fifth year (with payments in each year being made in equal quarterly installments other than the fifth year, in which payments shall be equal to 3.33% of the original principal amount of loans in each of the first three quarters and the remaining principal balance due in february 2017 (unless repayment is required in january 2016 as indicated above)). loans under this new term loan facility are secured on a pari passu basis with the company's existing obligations under the senior secured credit agreement and senior secured loan agreement. in february 2013, the second amended and restated senior secured credit agreement was amended and restated to provide for a new class of term loans (the class e term loans ) in an aggregate principal amount of $2,532 million and 289 million, the proceeds of which were used to repay or replace in full a like amount of our existing class a term loans maturing august 9, 2013, class b term loans maturing may 1, 2016 and class c term loans maturing may 1, 2016. as a result of this transaction, the company recorded a charge of $12 million primarily related to the write-off of previously capitalized deferred financing fees associated with the class a, b and c term loans to other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations. the class e term loans will mature in full on may 1, 2016 and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in aggregate annual amounts equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount of class e term loans, with the balance payable on may 1, 2016. class e term loans denominated in dollars bear interest equal to, at our election, a base r ate or eurocurrency rate, in each case plus an applicable margin, which is equal to 1.75% (in the case of base rate loans) or 2.75% (in the case of eurocurrency rate loans). 44 class e term loan denominated in euros bear interest equal to the eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin of 3.00%. the newly amended and restated senior secured credit agreement contains substantially the same affirmative and negative covenants as those of the existing credit agreement, as amended, other than certain amendments to the limitation on the ability of nielsen and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates to incur indebtedness and make investments. the senior secured credit agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acq uisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business they conduct. these entities are restricted, subject to certain exceptions, in their ability to transfer their net assets to us. such restricted net assets amounted to approximately $5.7 billion at december 31, 2013. in addition, these entities are required to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. neither we nor tnc b.v. is currently bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the credit agreement. the senior secured credit agreement also contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. certain significant financial covenants are described further below. obligations under the senior secured credit agreement ( credit agreement ) are guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly-owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of tnc b.v. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities. covenants attributable to tnc b.v. financial covenants contained in our credit agreement consist of a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio as related to our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries. the leverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of total net debt ( as defined in the facility) at the end of any calendar quarter to covenant ebitda (as defined in the facility) for the four quarters then ended to exceed a specified threshold. the maximum permitted ratio is 6.25 to 1.0. the interest coverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of covenant ebitda at the end of any calendar quarter to consolidated interest expense (as defined in the credit agreement) for the four quarters then ended to be less than a specified threshold. the minimum permitted ratio is 1.50 to 1.0. failure to comply with either of these covenants would result in an event of default under our credit agreement unless waived by our senior credit lenders. an event of default under our credit agreement can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facility, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. as our failure to comply with the covenants described above can cause us to go into de fault under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our credit agreement and these covenants are material to us. as of december 31, 2013, we were in full compliance with the covenants described above. pursuant to our credit agreement, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our credit agreement to the extent in any full calendar year we generate excess cash flow ( ecf ), as defined in the credit agreement. the percentage of ecf that must be applie d as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda, as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. to the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ecf clause, such payment must generally occur on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. at december 31, 2013, our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda was less than 5.00 to 1.00 and therefore no mandatory repayment was required. our next ecf measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2014 results, and although we do not expect to be required to issue any mandatory repayments in 2014 or beyond, it is uncertain at this time if any such payments will be required in future periods. revolving credit facility the senior secured credit agreement, as amended, also contains a senior secured revolving credit facility under which nielsen finance llc, tnc (us) holdings, inc., and nielsen holding and finance b.v. can borrow revolving loans. the revolving credit facility can also be used for letters of credit, guarantees and swingline loans. the revolving credit commitments totals $635 million with a final maturity date of april 2016. 45 the senior secured revolving credit facility is provided under the senior secured credit agreement and so contains covenants and restrictions as noted above with respect to the senior secured credit agreement under the term loan facilities section above. obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by the same entities that guarantee obligations under the senior secured credit agreement and senior secured loan agreement. as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, we had no borrowings outstanding, but had outstanding letters of credit of $12 million and $13 million, respectively. as of december 31, 2013, we had $623 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility. debenture loans the indentures governing certain of our debenture loans limit the majority of our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions w ith affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. upon a change in control, we are required to make an offer to redeem all of the senior notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. the senior notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v. dividends and share repurchase program we remain committed to driving shareholder value as evidenced in 2013 with the adoption of a quarterly cash dividend policy by our board of directors, under which we have paid $265 million in cash dividends during 2013. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will be subject to the board's continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders, and are in compliance with all laws and agreements to which we are subject. the below table summarizes the dividends declared on our common stock during 2013. declaration date record date payment date dividend per share january 31, 2013 march 6, 2013 march 20, 2013 $ 0.16 may 2, 2013 june 5, 2013 june 19, 2013 $ 0.16 july 25, 2013 august 28, 2013 september 11, 2013 $ 0.20 october 22, 2013 november 25, 2013 december 9, 2013 $ 0.20 no dividends were declared or paid on our common stock during 2012 or 2011. on july 25, 2013, our board approved a share repurchase program for up to $500 million of our outstanding common stock. the primary purpose of the program is to mitigate dilution associated with our equity compensation plans. repurchases will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws from time to time in the open market depending on our management's evaluation of market conditions and other factors. the program will be executed within the limitations of the existing authority granted at our 2013 annual general meeting of shareholders. as of december 31, 2013, we have purchased 289,839 shares of our common stock at an average price of $39.49 per share (total consideration of $11 million) under this program. secondary offerings in 2013, three secondary public offerings totaling 111,064,884 shares of our common stock were completed on behalf of certain selling stockholders, primarily comprised of the sponsor group, at a weighted average price of $35.27 per share. all proceeds were received by the selling stockholders and the offerings did not have a significant impact on our operating results or financial position. cash flows 2013 versus 2012 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $ 901 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, compared to $784 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. this increase was driven by the adjusted ebitda performance described above and by the timing of vendor and employee payroll payments. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), decreased by 1 day for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to a 1 day increase for the year ended december 31, 2012. 46 investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $ 687 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, compared to $522 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the primary driver for the increased usage of cash from investing activities was the increase in acquisition payments in connection with the arbitron acquisition partially offset by proceeds received from the sale of our expositions business. financing activities . net cash provided by financing activities was $83 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, compared to a use of $298 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase in cash provided by financing activities was driven by proceeds from the issuances of debt, partially offset by dividends paid on our common stock and debt repayments. cash flows 2012 versus 2011 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $784 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, compared to $641 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended december 31, 2011 included the $102 million payment for the termination and settlement of the sponsor advisory agreements. excluding this payment, cash flows provided by operating activities increased $41 million as compared to the prior period. this increase was driven by the adjusted ebitda performance described above and lower interest payments, substantially offset by the timing of vendor and employee payroll payments and timing of accounts receivable collections. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), increased by 1 day for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to a 1 day decrease for the year ended december 31, 2011. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $522 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, compared to $486 million fo r the year ended december 31, 2011. the primary driver for the increased usage of cash from investing activities was the increase in acquisition payments. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $298 million for the year ended dec ember 31, 2012, compared to $250 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase in the cash used by financing activities was driven by the repayment of outstanding debt, partially offset by the proceeds received from the issuances of debt. capital expenditures investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $374 million, $358 million and $367 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. commitments and contingencies outsourced services agreements in february 2013, we amended our amended and restated master services agreement (the msa ), dated as of october 1, 2007 with tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (jointly, tcs ). the term of the msa has been extended for an ad ditional three years, so as to expire on december 31, 2020, with a one-year renewal option granted to nielsen. in addition, we have increased our commitment to purchase services from tcs (the minimum commitment ) from $1.0 billion to $2.5 billion over the life of the contract (from october 1, 2007), including a commitment to purchase at least $100 million in services per year (the annual commitment ) until the minimum commitment is met. tcs' charges under the separate global infrastructure services agreement between the parties will be credited against the minimum commitment and the annual commitment. tcs will globally provide us with professional services relating to information technology (including application development and maintenance), business process outsourcing, client service knowledge process outsourcing, management sciences, analytics, and financial planning and analytics. as we order specific services under the agreement, the parties will execute statements of work ( sows ) describing the specific scope of the services to be performed by tcs. the amount of the minimum commitment and the annual commitment may be reduced on the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the agreement or sows, as applicable. 47 cyprus agreement on march 25, 2013, cyprus and certain members of the european union reached an agreement on measures intended to restore the viability of the financial sector of cyprus. as part of these measures cyprus has agreed to downsize its local financial sector including: (1) the immediate dissolution of cyprus popular bank under which equity shareholders, bondholders and uninsured depositors (defined as those with deposits in excess of 100 thousand) will contribute to make up the losses of the bank; and (2) the recapitalization of the bank of cyprus ( boc ) through a deposit/equity conversion of uninsured deposits, with full contribution of equity shareholders and bondholders. currently 37.5% of uninsured deposits of boc have been converted into class a shares with voting and dividend rights. an additional 22.5% have been frozen and may also be partially or fully used to issue new class a shares, as necessary. as a result of this agreement, during the year ended december 31, 2013, we recorded a charge of $4 million in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations representing the uninsured deposits either contributed to make up losses of cyprus popular bank or converted into class a shares of boc, as described above. we do not expect this agreement to significantly impact future operating results. other contractual obligations our other contractual obligations include capital lease obligations (including interest portion), facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal and interest on debt and pension fund obligations. at december 31, 2013, the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at decembe r 31, 2013, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. therefore, $527 million of unrecognized tax benefits (which includes interest and penalties of $52 million) have been excluded from the contractual obligations table below. see note 14 income taxes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. payments due by period (in millions) total 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter capital lease obligations (a) $ 161 $ 19 $ 18 $ 18 $ 16 $ 14 $ 76 operating leases (b) 395 92 71 62 50 43 77 other contractual obligations (c) 1,474 556 473 347 49 40 9 long-term debt, including current portion (a) 6,529 136 156 2,996 733 1,083 1,425 interest (d) 1,203 280 273 204 155 133 158 pension fund obligations ( e) 41 41 total $ 9,803 $ 1,124 $ 991 $ 3,627 $ 1,003 $ 1,313 $ 1,745 (a) our short-term and long-term debt obligations, including capital lease and other financing obligations, are described in note 11 long-term debt and other financing arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. (b) our operating lease obligations are described in note 16 commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. (c) other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreement, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. we generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. the amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. our remaining commitments as of december 31, 2013 under the outsourced services agreements with tcs have been included above on an estimated basis over the years within the contractual period in which we expect to satisfy our obligations. as of december 31, 2013, the remaining tcs commitment was approximately $1,000 million. (d) interest payments consist of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt based on libor as of december 31, 2013. (e) our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $51 million, $64 million and $54 million during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. future minimum pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2014. see note 10 pensions and other post-retirement benefits to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations. 48 guarantees and other contingent commitments at december 31, 2013, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements: sub-lease guarantees. we provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. to date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded. letters of credit. letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $1 2 million at december 31, 2013. legal proceedings and contingencies we are subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. while the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. however, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution o f some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. off-balance sheet arrangements except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources. summary of recent accounting pronouncements reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income in february 2013, the fasb issued an accounting update reporting of amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income , to improve the transparency of reporting reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income. we have presented the significant amounts reclassified from each component of accumulated other comprehensive income and the income statement line items affected by the reclassification in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. this amended guidance does not have any other impact on our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency matters in march 2013, the fasb issued an accounting update, parent's accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition of certain subsidiaries or groups of assets within a foreign entity or of an investment in a foreign entity , to resolve the diversity in practice regarding the release into net income of the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognit ion of a subsidiary or group of assets within a foreign entity. the amendment requires an entity that ceases to have a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets within a foreign entity to release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income. accordingly, the cumulative translation adjustment should be released into net income only if the sale or transfer results in the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity in which the subsidiary or group of assets had resided. this guidance is effective for our interim and annual reporting periods in 2014. the adoption of this update is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. income taxes in july 2013, the fasb issued an accounting update, income taxes: presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists . the update provides guidance on the financial statement presentati on of an unrecognized tax benefit, as either a reduction of a deferred tax asset or as a liability, when a net operating loss carryforward, similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. the update will be effective for interim and annual periods beginning after december 15, 2013 and may be applied on a retrospective basis. early adoption is permitted. the adoption of this update did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. 49 it em 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. we actively monitor these exposures. historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly int erest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. our objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. it is our policy not to trade in financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate globally and we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure. foreign currency translation risk is the risk that exchange rate gains or losses arise from translating foreign entities' statements of earnings and balance sheets from functional currency to our reporting currency (the u.s. dollar) for consolidation purposes. translation risk exposure is managed by creating natural hedges in our financing or by using derivative financial instruments aimed at o ffsetting certain exposures in the statement of earnings or the balance sheet. we do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. the table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the years ended december 31, 201 3 and 2012: u.s. dollars euro other currencies year ended december 31, 2013 revenues 52 % 12 % 36 % operating costs 51 % 12 % 37 % year ended december 31, 2012 revenues 51 % 12 % 37 % operating costs 49 % 13 % 38 % based on the year ended december 31, 2013, a one cent change in the u.s. dollar/euro exchange rate would have impacted revenues by approximately $7 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income. we have operations in both our buy and watch segments in venezuela and the functional currency for these operations was the venezuelan bolivares fuertes. venezuela's currency was considered hyperinflationary as of january 1, 2010 and further, in january 2010, venezuela's currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate system was announced. in 2010, we evaluated the new exchange rate system and concluded that the local currency transactions will be denominated in u.s. dollars effective as of january 1, 2010 and until venezuela's currency is deemed to be non-hyperinflationary in february 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency by 32%. the official exc hange rate moved from 4.30 to 6.30 and the regulated system of transactions with securities in foreign currency market was suspended. as a result of this change, we recorded a charge of $12 million in 2013 in foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities. in january 2014, venezuela announced the establishment of a dual exchange rate system. a rate of 6.3 venezuelan bolivares fuertes to the us dollar will be applied to priority sectors, such as food and medicine, while other sectors of the economy will apply an exchange rate determined based on the results of the venezuelan central bank's system of weekly currency auctions. we are in the process of analyzing the impact, if any, of this change on our 2014 consolidated financial statements. as of december 31, 2013, net monetary assets subject to revaluation in venezuela were $38 million. interest rate risk we continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerat ions in the u.s. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. at december 31, 2013, we had $4,016 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities, of which $2,872 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. a one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $11 million ($40 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). 50 in october and november 2013, we entered into $1,000 million in aggregate notional amount of three-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2013. these agreements fix the libor related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a weighted average rate of 0.46%. the commencement date of these interest rate swaps coincided with the $1,000 million aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in november 2013. these derivative inst ruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in july 2013, we entered into $575 million in aggregate notional amount of three -year interest swap agreements with starting dates in july 2013. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.67%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in november 2012, we entered into $500 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2012. these agreements fix the libor related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a weighted average rate of 0.57%. the co mmencement date of these interest rate swaps coincided with the $500 million aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in november 2012. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in november 2011, we entered into a $125 million notional amount and a 125 million notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2011. these agreements fix the libor and euro libor-related portion of interest rates of a cor responding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 0.84% and 1.30%, respectively. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in august 2011, we entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year forward interest swap agreements with starting dates in september 2011. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.84%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in november 2010 the company entered into a $250 million notional amount three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in november 2011, which fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at a rate of 1.26%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. we do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transactions were executed with a diversified group of major financia l institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties. 51risk factors 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in countries with currencies other than the u.s. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates; revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.33 to 1.00, $1.33 to 1.00 and $1.29 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations. we have operations in both our buy and watch segments in venezuela and the functional currency for these operations was the venezuelan bolivares fuertes. venezuela's currency has been considered hyperinflationary since january 1, 2010 and accordingly, local currency transactions have been denominated in u.s. dollars since january 1, 2010 and will continue to be until venezuela's currency is deemed to be non-hyperinflationary. in february 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency by 32%. the official exchange rate moved from 4.30 to 6.30 and the regulated system of transactions with securities in foreign currency market was suspended. as a result of this change, we recorded a charge of $12 million in 2013 in foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities. 33 during 2014, as a result of further changes associated with the venezuelan currency exchange rate mechanisms, we changed the exchange rate used to remeasure our venezuelan subsidiaries' financial statements in u.s. dollars. based on facts and circumstances present at march 31, 2014, we began using the exchange rate determined by periodic auctions for u.s. dollars conducted under venezuela's complementary system of foreign currency administration ( sicad i ). as a result of exchange agreement no. 25 between the central bank of venezuela and the venezuelan government, we believed that any future remittances for royalty and dividend payments would be transacted at the sicad i exchange rate. accordingly, because the equity of the venezuelan subsidiary would be realized through the payment of royalties and dividends, the sicad i exchange rate represented a more realistic exchange rate at which to remeasure the u.s. dollar value of the bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of our venezuelan subsidiaries in the consolidated financial statements. however, since its implementation, we have not been successful in gaining access to u.s. dollars through sicad i. due to the lack of access to the sicad i auction system, as of december 31, 2014 we decided it was more likely that it would be able to gain access to u.s. dollars through the sicad ii mechanism to settle transactions conducted by the company in venezuela as it was created to provide an open mechanism that permits any company to request u.s. dollars for any purpose. accordingly, we concluded that the sicad ii exchange rate should be used to re-measure our bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2014. at december 31, 2014, the sicad ii exchange rate was 50.0 bolivars to the u.s. dollar, compared with the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar and the sicad i exchange rate of 12.0 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. as a result of these changes, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $52 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 in foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net in the consolidated statement of operations, reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities in the our venezuelan operations. we will continue to assess the appropriate conversion rate based on events in venezuela and the company's specific facts and circumstances. we evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. the constant currency presentation is a non-gaap financial measure, which excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, consistent with how we evaluate our performance. we calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency financial results using the current period foreign currency exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. this calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with gaap nor should such amounts be considered in isolation. results of operations years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 the following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our consolidated statements of operations: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 revenues $ 6,288 $ 5,703 $ 5,407 cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 2,620 2,398 2,225 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,917 1,815 1,724 depreciation and amortization 573 510 493 restructuring charges 89 119 85 operating income 1,089 861 880 interest income 3 2 4 interest expense (300 ) (309 ) (390 ) foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net (71 ) (25 ) (17 ) other expense, net (100 ) (9 ) (118 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net (loss)/income of affiliates 621 520 359 provision for income taxes (236 ) (91 ) (122 ) equity in net (loss)/income of affiliates (4 ) 2 5 income from continuing operations 381 431 242 income from discontinued operations, net of tax 305 30 net income 381 736 272 net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (3 ) (4 ) (1 ) net income attributable to nielsen stockholders $ 384 $ 740 $ 273 34 net income to adjusted ebitda reconciliation we define adjusted ebitda as net income or loss from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, stock-based compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items specifically described below. adjusted ebitda is not a presentation made in accordance with gaap, and our use of the term adjusted ebitda may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. we use adjusted ebitda to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. in addition to adjusted ebitda being a significant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-gaap financial information is viewed with gaap financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. adjusted ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. adjusted ebitda has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. the below table presents a reconciliation from net income to adjusted ebitda for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 net income $ 381 $ 736 $ 272 income from discontinued operations, net (305 ) (30 ) interest expense, net 297 307 386 provision for income taxes 236 91 122 depreciation and amortization 573 510 493 ebitda 1,487 1,339 1,243 equity in net loss/(income) of affiliates 4 (2 ) (5 ) other non-operating expense, net 171 34 135 restructuring charges 89 119 85 stock-based compensation expense 47 47 34 other items (a) 39 80 12 adjusted ebitda $ 1,837 $ 1,617 $ 1,504 (a) for the year ended december 31, 2014, other items primarily consist of non-recurring costs. for the year ended december 31, 2013, other items consist primarily of one-time items associated with the acquisition of arbitron, including non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction-related costs. for the year ended december 31, 2012, other items primarily consist of transaction-related costs. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to the year ended december 31, 2013 revenues revenues increased 10.3% to $6,288 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $5,703 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, or 12.4% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 2.1% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of the arbitron and harris interactive acquisitions, revenues increased 2.4% (4.5% on a constant currency basis). revenues within our buy segment increased 3.4% (6.3% on a constant currency basis). excluding the impact from the harris interactive acquisition, buy segment revenues increased 0.8% (3.6% on a constant currency basis). revenues within our watch segment increased 20.4% (21.3% on a constant currency basis). excluding the impact from the arbitron acquisition, revenues within our watch segment increased 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis). 35 cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 9.3% to $2,620 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $2,398 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, or 10.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 1.5% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment increased 7.1% (9.3% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to the harris interactive acquisition in february 2014 and the continued global expansion of our services. costs within our watch segment increased 11.1% (11.7% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the arbitron acquisition on september 30, 2013 partially offset by the impact of productivity initiatives. corporate costs increased by approximately $17 million in 2014 as compared to 2013. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative expenses increased 5.6% to $1,917 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $1,815 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, or an increase of 7.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment increased 0.9 % (3.5% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to the harris interactive acquisition in february 2014, as well as other investments associated with the expansion of our services. costs within our watch segment increased 21.7% (22.4% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the arbitron acquisition on september 30, 2013, as well as the impact of other investments in product development initiatives. corporate costs decreased by $10 million due to higher transaction-related costs in 2013. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations was $573 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to $510 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the increase was primarily driven by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with the assets acquired in business acquisitions. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $204 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $162 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. restructuring charges we recorded $89 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2014, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives. we recorded $119 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2013, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives and contract termination costs. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2014 was $1,089 million compared to operating income of $861 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. operating income of $358 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 within our buy segment decreased from $399 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. operating income within our watch segment of $836 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 increased from $570 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. corporate operating expenses decreased to $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $108 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. interest expense interest expense was $300 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to $309 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the decline primarily related to the refinancing of term loan a and b in february 2013, the maturity of the mandatory convertible debt in february 2013, the refinancing of the 11.625% senior notes in october 2013, and the refinancing of the 7.75% senior notes in april and july 2014 partially offset by the increased debt balance in september 2013 related to arbitron acquisition financing and the interest expense allocated to our discontinued operations in the year ended december 31, 2013 as discussed in the discontinued operations section in factors affecting nielsen's financial results above. foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain cash, external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.33 to 1.00 in each of the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013. 36 we incurred $71 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended december 31, 2014, resulting primarily from changes to the venezuelan exchange rate mechanisms as discussed in the foreign currency section of factors affecting nielsen's financial results as well as the fluctuation in u.s. to euro exchange rate associated with our european revolving credit facility and the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. we incurred $25 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended december 31, 2013, resulting primarily from the devaluation of the venezuela bolivars fuertes as discussed in the foreign currency section of factors affecting nielsen's financial results as well as the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. other expense, net other expense, net of $100 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 is primarily related to the make-whole premium associated with the redemption of our 7.75% senior notes due 2018, as well as the write-off of certain previously capitalized deferred financing fees associated with the class d and e term loans and certain costs incurred in connection with the refinancings. the $9 million of other expense, net for the year ended december 31, 2013 consists primarily of the write-off of deferred financing costs and other costs of $12 million associated with the amendment to our senior secured credit agreement, charges of $12 million associated with the unused bridge loan terminated as part of the arbitron acquisition and charges of approximately $8 million related to the redemption of all of our 11.625% senior notes due 2014, partially offset by the gain of $24 million from the step acquisition of scarborough. income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $621 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to $520 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 were 38% and 18%, respectively. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2014 was higher than the dutch statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities and foreign distributions, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2013 was lower than the statutory expense rate due to the favorable impact of certain financing activities, release of valuation allowances and favorable impacts of provision to return adjustments. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $452 million and $475 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 of $41 million and $52 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $23 million to $45 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 13.6% to $1,837 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $1,617 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, or 16.5% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 29.21% for the year ended december 31, 2014 from 28.35% for the year ended december 31, 2013. see results of operations (years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012) for the reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda. 37 consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to the year ended december 31, 2012 revenues revenues increased 5.5% to $5,703 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $5,407 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or 6.4% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 0.9% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact from the acquisition of arbitron, revenues increased 3.0% (3.9% on a constant currency basis). revenues within our buy segment increased 1.9% (3.1% on a constant currency basis) while revenues within our watch segment increased 11.2% (11.7% on a constant currency basis). excluding the impact from the acquisition of arbitron, revenues within our watch segment increased 4.7% (5.2% on a constant currency basis). cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 7.8% to $2,398 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $2,225 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or 8.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.7% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment increased 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to investments in the continued global expansion of our services as well as investment in our footprint in the emerging markets. costs within our watch segment increased 12.6% (13.2% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the arbitron acquisition on september 30, 2013 and spending on product portfolio management initiatives. corporate costs increased by approximately $3 million in 2013 as compared to 2012. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative expenses increased 5.3% to $1,815 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $1,724 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or an increase of 6.1% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.8% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment increased 0.8 % (1.7% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to increases in client service costs and other investments associated with the global expansion of our services. costs within our watch segment increased 14.6% (15.5% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the arbitron acquisition on september 30, 2013. corporate costs increased by $21 million due to higher transaction-related costs. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations was $510 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 as compared to $493 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase was primarily driven by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with the tangible and intangible assets acquired as part of the arbitron acquisition on september 30, 2013. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $162 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $145 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 resulting from higher amortization on the assets acquired as part of the arbitron acquisition on september 30, 2013. restructuring charges we recorded $119 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2013, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives and contract termination costs. we recorded $85 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2012, of which $5 million related to property lease termination charges with the remainder relating to severance costs associated with employee terminations. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2013 was $861 million compared to operating income of $880 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. operating income of $399 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 within our buy segment decreased from $403 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. operating income within our watch segment of $570 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 increased from $553 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. corporate operating expenses increased to $108 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $76 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. interest expense interest expense was $309 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $390 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the decline primarily related to our refinancing of the 11.5% senior notes and our 8.5% senior secured term loan 38 in the fourth quarter of 2012, the impact of our refinancing of the class a, b, and c senior secured term loans in february 2013, the maturity of the mandatory convertible debt in february 2013 and the refinancing of the 11.625% senior notes in october 2013. foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.33 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2013 as compared to $1.29 to 1.00 for the year ended december 31, 2012. we incurred $25 million and $17 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the loss in 2013 resulted primarily from the devaluation of the venezuela bolivars fuertes as discussed in the foreign currency section of the factors affecting nielsen's financial results and the fluctuations of certain foreign currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. the loss in 2012 resulted primarily from fluctuations in certain currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. other expense, net the $9 million of other expense, net for the year ended december 31, 2013, consists primarily of the write-off of deferred financing costs and other costs of $12 million associated with the amendment to our senior secured credit agreement, charges of $12 million associated with the unused bridge loan terminated as part of the arbitron acquisition and charges of approximately $8 million related to the redemption of all of our 11.625% senior notes due 2014, partially offset by the gain of $24 million from the step acquisition of scarborough. the $118 million of other expense, net for the year ended december 31, 2012, consists of charges of $115 million associated with the redemption and retirement of our 11.50% senior notes due 2016 and the prepayment of our 8.50% senior secured term loan due 2017, a $6 million write-down of an investment in an equity security, and a $6 million charge associated with extinguishment of our term loan due in 2013, partially offset by a $10 million gain on the acquisition of a previously nonconsolidated business. income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $520 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $359 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012 were 18% and 34%, respectively. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2013 was lower than the statutory expense rate due to the favorable impact of certain financing activities and the net release of valuation allowances partially offset by an increase in accruals for our uncertain tax position and tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, us state and local and other withholding taxes. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2012 was higher than the statutory expense rate due to the impact of distributions from foreign subsidiaries, tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, us state and local and other withholding taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities, the net release of valuation allowances and changes in deferred tax rates. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $475 million and $409 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 of $52 million and $45 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $47 million to $57 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. 39 adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 7.5% to $1,617 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $1,504 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or 8.7% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 28.35% for the year ended december 31, 2013 from 27.82% for the year ended december 31, 2012. see results of operations (years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011) for the reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda. business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to the year ended december 31, 2013 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to the year ended december 31, 2013, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2014 year ended december 31, 2013 % variance 2014 vs. 2013 reported year ended december 31, 2013 constant currency % variance 2014 vs. 2013 constant currency revenues by segment buy ( a ) $ 3,523 $ 3,406 3.4 % $ 3,314 6.3 % watch ( b ) 2,765 2,297 20.4 % 2,279 21.3 % total ( c ) $ 6,288 $ 5,703 10.3 % $ 5,593 12.4 % (a) the buy segment includes the results of harris interactive for the year ended december 31, 2014, commencing on february 3, 2014, the acquisition date. excluding the impact from the harris interactive acquisition, total buy revenue was $3,434, an increase of 0.8% (3.6% on a constant currency basis). (b) the watch segment includes the arbitron (nielsen audio) results for the full year 2014 and for the fourth quarter of 2013. excluding the impact from the arbitron acquisition, total watch revenue was $2,269 million, an increase of 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis) (c) total nielsen revenue includes both arbitron (full period) and harris interactive (from february 3, 2014) for the year ended december 31, 2014. excluding the impact from the two acquisitions, total nielsen revenue for the year ended december 31, 2014 was $5,703 million, an increase of 2.4% (4.5% on a constant currency basis). buy segment revenues revenues increased 3.4% to $3,523 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $3,406 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 (6.3% on a constant currency basis). excluding the impact of the harris interactive acquisition, revenues increased 0.8% (3.6% on a constant currency basis). revenues from emerging markets increased 1.7% (9.5% on a constant currency basis) and revenues from developed markets increased 4.3% (4.9% on a constant currency basis). excluding the impact from the harris interactive acquisition, revenues from developed markets increased 0.4% (1.0% on a constant currency basis). revenues from information services, which primarily include retail scanner and consumer panel-based measurement, increased 0.3% to $2,657 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $2,648 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 (3.3% on a constant currency basis). growth in these services was driven by increased client investment in retail measurement in the emerging markets as well as the addition of new clients in developed markets. revenues from insights services, which consist of a broad range of analytics, increased 14.2% to $866 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $758 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, (16.6% on a constant currency basis). excluding the impact of the harris acquisition, revenues from these services increased 2.5% (4.6% on a constant currency basis), driven by increased demand for our analytical services in developed and emerging markets around the world. watch segment revenues revenues increased 20.4% to $2,765 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $2,297 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, or 21.3% on a constant currency basis. excluding the impact from the arbitron acquisition, revenues increased 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis). audience measurement revenue, excluding arbitron, grew 5.3% (6.3% on a constant currency basis). the increase in watch revenues was driven by the continued strength of audience measurement, including digital and marketing effectiveness. 40 business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2014 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 358 $ 64 $ 224 $ 14 $ (2 ) $ 658 watch 836 14 343 10 11 1,214 corporate and eliminations (105 ) 11 6 23 30 (35 ) total nielsen $ 1,089 $ 89 $ 573 $ 47 $ 39 $ 1,837 year ended december 31, 2013 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 399 $ 47 $ 199 $ 14 $ 1 $ 660 watch 570 55 302 11 51 989 corporate and eliminations (108 ) 17 9 22 28 (32 ) total nielsen $ 861 $ 119 $ 510 $ 47 $ 80 $ 1,617 (1) for the year ended december 31, 2014, other items consist primarily of non-recurring costs. for the year ended december 31, 2013, other items consist primarily of one-time items associated with the acquisition of arbitron, including non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction-related costs. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2014 year ended december 31, 2013 % variance 2014 vs. 2013 reported year ended december 31, 2013 constant currency % variance 2014 vs. 2013 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 658 $ 660 (0.3 )% $ 629 4.6 % watch 1,214 989 22.8 % 979 24.0 % corporate and eliminations (35 ) (32 ) na (31 ) na total nielsen $ 1,837 $ 1,617 13.6 % $ 1,577 16.5 % buy segment profitability operating income was $358 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to $399 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 as the increase in revenue mentioned above was more than offset by investment in the continued global expansion of our services, higher restructuring charges and an increase in depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 4.6% on a constant currency basis. watch segment profitability operating income was $836 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to $570 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, as well as a decrease in restructuring charges and transaction-related costs partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 24.0% on a constant currency basis. 41 corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to $108 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 due to decreases in restructuring charges and depreciation and amortization expense. business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to the year ended december 31, 2012 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to the year ended december 31, 2012, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2013 year ended december 31, 2012 % variance 2013 vs. 2012 reported year ended december 31, 2012 constant currency % variance 2013 vs. 2012 constant currency revenues by segment buy (b ) $ 3,406 $ 3,341 1.9 % $ 3,305 3.1 % watch (a) (b ) 2,297 2,066 11.2 % 2,056 11.7 % total $ 5,703 $ 5,407 5.5 % $ 5,361 6.4 % (a) the watch segment includes the arbitron results for the fourth quarter of 2013. excluding the impact from the arbitron acquisition, total nielsen revenue was $5,569 million, an increase of 3.0% (3.9% on a constant currency basis) and the watch segment revenue was $2,163 million, an increase of 4.7% (5.2% on a constant currency basis). (b) during the fourth quarter of 2013, to conform to a change in management reporting, we reclassified two products from the buy segment to the watch segment. the business segment results have been reclassified for comparison purposes for all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. buy segment revenues revenues increased 1.9% to $3,406 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $3,341 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or 3.1% on a constant currency basis. revenues from emerging markets increased 3.4% (7.4% on a constant currency basis) and revenues from developed markets increased 1.2% for the period (1.1% on a constant currency basis). revenues from information services, which primarily include retail scanner and consumer panel-based measurement, increased 2.0% to $2,648 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $2,595 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or 3.0% on a constant currency basis. revenues from emerging markets increased 2.4% (6.5% on a constant currency basis) due to continued expansion of our retail measurement and services to both new and existing customers. revenues from developed markets increased 1.9% (1.5% on a constant currency basis). growth was impacted by no longer benefiting from the additional retail measurement coverage in the u.s. driven by wal-mart and softness in western europe. revenues from insights services, which consist of a broad range of analytics, increased 1.6% to $758 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $746 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, (3.1% on a constant currency basis) driven by increased demand for our analytical services in the emerging countries around the world. watch segment revenues revenues increased 11.2% to $2,297 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 from $2,066 million for the year ended december 31, 2012, or 11.7% on a constant currency basis. excluding the impact from the arbitron acquisition, revenues increased 4.7% (5.2% on a constant currency basis). audience measurement revenue, excluding arbitron (nielsen audio), grew 5.2% (5.7% on a constant currency basis) driven by increases in spending from existing customers, international expansion of our services to both new and existing customers, accelerated growth of our new digital products and increased growth in marketing effectiveness. business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors 42 regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2013 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 399 $ 47 $ 199 $ 14 $ 1 $ 660 watch 570 55 302 11 51 989 corporate and eliminations (108 ) 17 9 22 28 (32 ) total nielsen $ 861 $ 119 $ 510 $ 47 $ 80 $ 1,617 year ended december 31, 2012 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 403 $ 58 $ 197 $ 10 $ 8 $ 676 watch 553 20 285 7 (9 ) 856 corporate and eliminations (76 ) 7 11 17 13 (28 ) total nielsen $ 880 $ 85 $ 493 $ 34 $ 12 $ 1,504 (1) for the year ended december 31, 2013, other items consist primarily of one-time items associated with the acquisition of arbitron, including non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction-related costs. for the year ended december 31, 2012, other items consist primarily of transaction-related costs. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2013 year ended december 31, 2012 % variance 2013 vs. 2012 reported year ended december 31, 2012 constant currency % variance 2013 vs. 2012 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 660 $ 676 (2.4 )% $ 663 (0.5 )% watch 989 856 15.5 % 851 16.2 % corporate and eliminations (32 ) (28 ) na (27 ) na total nielsen $ 1,617 $ 1,504 7.5 % $ 1,487 8.7 % buy segment profitability operating income was $399 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 as compared to $403 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 as the increase in revenue mentioned above was more than offset by investments in emerging markets expansion and increases in retail measurement costs. non-gaap business segment income decreased 0.5% on a constant currency basis. watch segment profitability operating income was $570 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 as compared to $553 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense and restructuring charges resulting from the arbitron acquisition. non-gaap business segment income increased 16.2% on a constant currency basis. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $108 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 as compared to $76 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 due to increases in restructuring charges, transaction-related costs and stock-based compensation expense. 43 liquidity and capital resources we have consistently generated strong cash flows from operations, providing a source of funds ranging between $1,093 million and $784 million per year over the past three years. we provide for additional liquidity through several sources including, maintaining an adequate cash balance, access to global funding sources and a committed revolving credit facility. the following table provides a summary of the major sources of liquidity for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012: (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 net cash from operating activities $ 1,093 $ 901 $ 784 cash and short-term marketable securities $ 273 $ 564 $ 288 revolving credit facility $ 575 $ 635 $ 635 of the $273 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $264 million was held in jurisdictions outside the u.s. and as a result there may be tax consequences if such amounts were moved out of these jurisdictions or repatriated to the u.s. we regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our u.s. indebtedness and related obligations. we continue to focus on extending debt maturities and reducing cash interest expense. as set forth in more detail below, in 2013 and 2014, we obtained amendments to our term loan and revolving credit facilities, and used the proceeds from new issuances of senior notes to redeem previously outstanding notes with higher interest rates. the below table illustrates the results of these efforts through the decrease in our weighted average interest rate and cash paid for interest over the last three years. 2014 2013 2012 weighted average interest rate 3.79 % 4.28 % 5.02 % cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized (in millions) $ 294 $ 304 $ 384 in april 2014, we completed the issuance of $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due 2022 at par. in addition, in april 2014, we entered into an amendment agreement to amend and restate the third amended and restated senior secured credit agreement in the form of the fourth amended and restated credit agreement, which provides for three new classes of term loans, class a term loans, class b-1 term loans and class b-2 term loans, in a combined principal amount of $3,180 million and 286 million, the proceeds of which, when combined with the net proceeds from the $750 million 5.0% senior notes, were used to repay and replace our existing class d term loans maturing in february 2017 and the class e term loans maturing in may 2016. concurrent with the refinancing of the term loans, the existing $635 million revolving credit facility with a final maturity of april 2016 was replaced with new aggregate revolving credit commitments of $575 million with a final maturity of april 2019. finally, in may 2014, we completed the redemption of $280 million in principal amount of the then currently outstanding $1,080 million aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2018 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof plus an applicable make-whole premium. as a result of these transactions, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $45 million during 2014 to other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily related to the make-whole premium associated with the note redemption, as well as the write-off of certain previously capitalized deferred financing fees associated with the class d and e term loans and certain costs incurred in connection with the refinancings. in july 2014, we completed the issuance of an additional $800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due 2022. the notes are traded interchangeably with the $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due 2022 issued in april 2014. in addition, in july 2014, we completed the redemption of the remaining $800 million of outstanding 7.75% senior notes due 2018 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof plus an applicable make-whole premium. as a result of these transactions, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $51 million during 2014 to other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily related to the make-whole premium associated with the note redemption, as well as the write-off of certain previously capitalized deferred financing fees associated with the 7.75% senior notes. our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. we believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. we expect the cash flow from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, dividend payments and capital spending over the next year. in addition we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. 44 long-term borrowings the following table provides a summary of our outstanding long-term borrowings as of december 31, 2014: (in millions) weighted interest rate carrying amount $1,580 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 2.16% ) due 2019 1,542 $500 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 2.41% ) due 2017 497 $1,100 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 3.16% ) due 2021 1,094 286 million senior secured term loan (euro libor based variable rate of 3.01%) due 2021 345 $575 million senior secured revolving credit facility (euro libor or libor based variable rate) due 2019 280 total senior secured credit facilities (with weighted average interest rate) 2.65 % 3,758 $800 million 4.50% senior debenture loan due 2020 800 $ 1,550 million 5.00% senior debenture loan due 2022 1,553 $625 million 5.50% senior debenture loan due 2021 625 total debenture loans (with weighted average interest rate) 5.23 % 2,978 other loans 8 total long-term debt 3.79 % 6,744 capital lease and other financing obligations 118 total debt and other financing arrangements 6,862 less: current portion of long-term debt, capital lease and other financing obligations and other short-term borrowings 397 non-current portion of long-term debt and capital lease and other financing obligations $ 6,465 term loan facilities in august 2006, certain of our subsidiaries entered into the senior secured credit agreement that was amended and restated in june 2009, february 2012, february 2013 and april 2014. the senior secured credit agreement provides for term loan facilities as shown in the table above. in april 2014, we entered into an amendment agreement to amend and restate the third amended and restated senior secured credit agreement in the form of the fourth amended and restated credit agreement which provides for three new classes of term loans, class a term loans, class b-1 term loans and class b-2 term loans, in a combined principal amount of $3,180 million and 286 million, the proceeds of which, when combined with the net proceeds from the $750 million 5.0% senior notes (see debenture loans below), were used to repay and replace our existing class d term loans maturing in february 2017 and the class e term loans maturing in may 2016. the class a term loans were issued with an aggregate principal balance of $1,580 million, maturing in full in april 2019. the class a term loans shall be required to be repaid in an amount equal to 5% of the original principal amount in the first year after the closing date, 5% in the second year, 7.5% in the third year, 10% in the fourth year, and 72.5% in the fifth year (with payments in each year being made in equal quarterly installments other than the fifth year, in which payments shall be equal to 3.75% of the original principal amount in each of the first three quarters, with the balance repayable on the maturity date). class a term loans bear interest equal to, at our election, a base rate or eurocurrency rate, in each case plus an applicable margin which ranges from 0.50% to 1.25% (in the case of base rate loans) or 1.50% to 2.25% (in the case of eurocurrency rate loans). the specific applicable margin is determined by the company's total leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement). the class b-1 term loans were issued with an aggregate principal balance of $500 million, maturing in full in may 2017 and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in aggregate annual amounts equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount of class b-1 term loans, with the balance payable in may 2017. class b-1 term loans bear interest equal to, at our election, a base rate or eurocurrency rate, in each case plus an applicable margin, which is equal to 1.25% (in the case of base rate loans) and 2.25% (in the case of eurocurrency rate loans). 45 the class b-2 term loans were issued with an aggregate principal balance of $1,100 million and 286 million, maturing in full in april 2021 and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in aggregate annual amounts equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount of class b-2 term loans, with the balance payable in april 2021. class b-2 term loans denominated in dollars bear interest equal to, at our election, a base rate or eurocurrency rate, in each case plus an applicable margin, which is equal to 2.00% (in the case of base rate loans) and 3.00% (in the case of eurocurrency rate loans). class b-2 term loan denominated in euros bear interest equal to the eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin of 3.00% . obligations under the senior secured credit agreement ( credit agreement ) are guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly-owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of tnc b.v. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities. covenants the senior secured credit agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business they conduct. these entities are restricted, subject to certain exceptions, in their ability to transfer their net assets to us. such restricted net assets amounted to approximately $5.0 billion at december 31, 2014. in addition, these entities are required to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio. neither we nor tnc b.v. is currently bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the credit agreement. the senior secured credit agreement also contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. certain significant financial covenants are described further below. as discussed above, in april 2014, we entered into an amendment agreement to amend and restate the third amended and restated senior secured credit agreement in the form of the fourth amended and restated credit agreement. the financial covenant contained in our fourth amended and restated credit agreement consists of a maximum leverage ratio applicable to our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries. the leverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of total net debt (as defined in the senior secured credit agreement) at the end of any calendar quarter to covenant ebitda (as defined in the senior secured credit agreement) for the four quarters then ended to exceed a specified threshold. the maximum permitted ratio is 5.50 to 1.00. failure to comply with this financial covenant would result in an event of default under our fourth amended and restated credit agreement unless waived by our senior credit lenders. an event of default under our fourth amended and restated credit agreement can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facilities, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. as our failure to comply with the financial covenant described above can cause us to go into default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our fourth amended and restated credit agreement and this covenant are material to us. as of december 31, 2014, we were in full compliance with the financial covenant described above. pursuant to our credit agreement, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our credit agreement to the extent in any full calendar year we generate excess cash flow ( ecf ), as defined in the credit agreement. the percentage of ecf that must be applied as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda, as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. to the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ecf clause; such payment must generally occur on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. at december 31, 2014, our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda was less than 5.00 to 1.00 and therefore no mandatory repayment was required. our next ecf measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2014 results, and although we do not expect to be required to issue any mandatory repayments in 2014 or beyond, it is uncertain at this time if any such payments will be required in future periods. revolving credit facility the senior secured credit agreement, as amended, also contains a senior secured revolving credit facility under which nielsen finance llc, tnc (us) holdings, inc., and nielsen holding and finance b.v. can borrow revolving loans. the revolving credit facility can also be used for letters of credit, guarantees and swingline loans. in april 2014, we entered into an amendment agreement 46 to amend and restate the third amended and restated senior secured credit agreement in the form of the fourth amended and restated credit agreement, in connection with which the existing $635 million revolving credit facility was replaced with new aggregate revolving credit commitments of $575 million with a final maturity of april 2019. the senior secured revolving credit facility is provided under the senior secured credit agreement and so contains covenants and restrictions as noted above with respect to the senior secured credit agreement under the term loan facilities section above. obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by the same entities that guarantee obligations under the senior secured credit agreement and senior secured loan agreement. as of december 31, 2014, we had $280 million of borrowings outstanding and outstanding letters of credit of $6 million. as of december 31, 2013, we had no borrowings outstanding, but had outstanding letters of credit of $12 million. as of december 31, 2014, we had $289 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility. debenture loans the indentures governing certain of our debenture loans limit the majority of our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. upon a change in control, we are required to make an offer to redeem all of the senior notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. the senior notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by nielsen n.v., substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of nielsen n.v., and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of nielsen n.v. in april 2014, we completed the issuance of $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior notes due 2022 at par. in may 2014, we completed the redemption of $280 million in principal amount of the then currently outstanding $1,080 million aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2018 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof plus an applicable make-whole premium. in july 2014, we completed the issuance of an additional $800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior notes due 2022. the notes are traded interchangeably with the $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due 2022 issued in april 2014. in addition, in july 2014, we redeemed the remaining $800 million of outstanding 7.75% senior notes due 2018 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof plus an applicable make-whole premium. dividends and share repurchase program we remain committed to driving shareholder value as evidenced in 2013 with the adoption of a quarterly cash dividend policy by our board of directors, under which we have paid $356 million and $265 million in cash dividends during the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will be subject to the board's continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders, and are in compliance with all laws and agreements to which we are subject. the below table summarizes the dividends declared on our common stock during 2013 and 2014. declaration date record date payment date dividend per share january 31, 2013 march 6, 2013 march 20, 2013 $ 0.16 may 2, 2013 june 5, 2013 june 19, 2013 $ 0.16 july 25, 2013 august 28, 2013 september 11, 2013 $ 0.20 october 22, 2013 november 25, 2013 december 9, 2013 $ 0.20 february 20, 2014 march 6, 2014 march 20, 2014 $ 0.20 may 1, 2014 june 5, 2014 june 19, 2014 $ 0.25 july 24, 2014 august 28, 2014 september 11, 2014 $ 0.25 october 30, 2014 november 25, 2014 december 9, 2014 $ 0.25 no dividends were declared or paid on our common stock during 2012. 47 in july 2013, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $500 million of our outstanding common stock. in addition, in october 2014, our board of directors approved a new share repurchase program for up to $1 billion of our outstanding common stock. the primary purpose of the program is to mitigate dilution associated with our equity compensation plans. repurchases under these plans will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws from time to time in the open market or otherwise depending on our management's evaluation of market conditions and other factors. repurchases under these programs will be executed within the limitations of the existing authority granted at our 2014 annual general meeting of shareholders. as of december 31, 2014, we have purchased 11,182,983 shares of our common stock at an average price of $42.67 per share (total consideration of $477 million) under these programs. the following table provides a summary of share repurchase program activity through december 31, 2014. period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs 2013 activity 289,839 $ 39.49 289,839 $ 488,554,427 2014 activity january 1- 31 n/a $ 488,554,427 february 1- 28 110,239 $ 43.42 110,239 $ 483,768,078 march 1- 31 241,091 $ 46.85 241,091 $ 472,472,783 april 1-30 269,972 $ 44.47 269,972 $ 460,467,412 may 1-31 211,848 $ 47.20 211,848 $ 450,467,820 june 1-30 207,243 $ 47.44 207,243 $ 440,635,906 july 1-31 188,612 $ 48.54 188,612 $ 431,480,660 august 1-31 181,509 $ 47.15 181,509 $ 422,921,757 september 1-30 197,759 $ 45.66 197,759 $ 413,891,828 october 1-31 223,047 $ 42.72 223,047 $ 1,404,363,449 november 1-30 5,387,545 $ 41.09 5,387,545 $ 1,182,970,041 december 1-31 3,674,279 $ 43.58 3,674,279 $ 1,022,830,101 total 11,182,983 $ 42.67 11,182,983 subsequent event on february 19, 2015, our board declared a cash dividend of $0.25 per share on our common stock. the dividend is payable on march 19, 2015 to stockholders of record at the close of business on march 5, 2015. cash flows 2014 versus 2013 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $1,093 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, compared to $901 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. this increase was driven by the adjusted ebitda performance described above and by the timing of vendor payments. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), increased by 1 day for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to a 1 day decrease for the year ended december 31, 2013. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $732 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, compared to $687 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the primary driver for the increased usage of cash from investing activities was the increase in capital expenditures for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the same period of 2013. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $585 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, compared to net cash provided by of $83 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the increase in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to the higher share repurchasing and dividend payments, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, during the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the same period of 2013. 48 cash flows 2013 versus 2012 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $901 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, compared to $784 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. this increase was driven by the adjusted ebitda performance described above and by the timing of vendor and employee payroll payments. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), decreased by 1 day for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to a 1 day increase for the year ended december 31, 2012. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $687 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, compared to $522 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the primary driver for the increased usage of cash from investing activities was the increase in acquisition payments in connection with the arbitron acquisition partially offset by proceeds received from the sale of our expositions business. financing activities . net cash provided by financing activities was $83 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, compared to a use of $298 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase in cash provided by financing activities was driven by proceeds from the issuances of debt, partially offset by dividends paid on our common stock and debt repayments. capital expenditures investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $412 million, $374 million and $358 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. commitments and contingencies outsourced services agreements in february 2013, we amended our amended and restated master services agreement (the msa ), dated as of october 1, 2007 with tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (jointly, tcs ). the term of the msa has been extended for an additional three years, so as to expire on december 31, 2020, with a one-year renewal option granted to nielsen. in addition, we have increased our commitment to purchase services from tcs (the minimum commitment ) from $1.0 billion to $2.5 billion over the life of the contract (from october 1, 2007), including a commitment to purchase at least $100 million in services per year (the annual commitment ) until the minimum commitment is met. tcs' charges under the separate global infrastructure services agreement between the parties will be credited against the minimum commitment and the annual commitment. tcs will globally provide us with professional services relating to information technology (including application development and maintenance), business process outsourcing, client service knowledge process outsourcing, management sciences, analytics, and financial planning and analytics. as we order specific services under the agreement, the parties will execute statements of work ( sows ) describing the specific scope of the services to be performed by tcs. the amount of the minimum commitment and the annual commitment may be reduced on the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the agreement or sows, as applicable. cyprus agreement on march 25, 2013, cyprus and certain members of the european union reached an agreement on measures intended to restore the viability of the financial sector of cyprus. as part of these measures cyprus has agreed to downsize its local financial sector including: (1) the immediate dissolution of cyprus popular bank under which equity shareholders, bondholders and uninsured depositors (defined as those with deposits in excess of 100 thousand) will contribute to make up the losses of the bank; and (2) the recapitalization of the bank of cyprus ( boc ) through a deposit/equity conversion of uninsured deposits, with full contribution of equity shareholders and bondholders. currently 37.5% of uninsured deposits of boc have been converted into class a shares with voting and dividend rights. an additional 22.5% have been frozen and may also be partially or fully used to issue new class a shares, as necessary. as a result of this agreement, during the year ended december 31, 2013, we recorded a charge of $4 million in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations representing the uninsured deposits either contributed to make up losses of cyprus popular bank or converted into class a shares of boc, as described above. we do not expect this agreement to significantly impact future operating results. 49 other contractual obligations our other contractual obligations include capital lease obligations (including interest portion), facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal and interest on debt and pension fund obligations. at december 31, 2014, the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2014, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. therefore, $493 million of unrecognized tax benefits (which includes interest and penalties of $41 million) have been excluded from the contractual obligations table below. see note 14 income taxes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. payments due by period (in millions) total 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter capital lease obligations (a) $ 160 $ 24 $ 24 $ 22 $ 15 $ 13 $ 62 operating leases (b) 366 87 71 60 51 37 60 other contractual obligations (c) 1,017 666 245 64 35 7 long-term debt, including current portion (a) 6,744 379 128 640 212 1,042 4,343 interest (d) 1,544 263 245 239 226 205 366 pension fund obligations (e) 28 28 total $ 9,859 $ 1,447 $ 713 $ 1,025 $ 539 $ 1,304 $ 4,831 (a) our short-term and long-term debt obligations, including capital lease and other financing obligations, are described in note 11 long-term debt and other financing arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. (b) our operating lease obligations are described in note 16 commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. (c) other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreement, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. we generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. the amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. our remaining commitments as of december 31, 2014 under the outsourced services agreements with tcs have been included above on an estimated basis over the years within the contractual period in which we expect to satisfy our obligations. as of december 31, 2014, the remaining tcs commitment was approximately $609 million. (d) interest payments consist of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt based on libor as of december 31, 2014. (e) our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $35 million, $51 million and $64 million during 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. future minimum pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2015. see note 10 pensions and other post-retirement benefits to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations. guarantees and other contingent commitments at december 31, 2014, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements: sub-lease guarantees. we provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. to date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded. letters of credit. letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $6 million at december 31, 2014. legal proceedings and contingencies we are subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. while the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse 50 effect on our operations or financial condition. however, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. off-balance sheet arrangements except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources. summary of recent accounting pronouncements foreign currency matters in march 2013, the fasb issued an accounting update, parent's accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition of certain subsidiaries or groups of assets within a foreign entity or of an investment in a foreign entity , to resolve the diversity in practice regarding the release into net income of the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition of a subsidiary or group of assets within a foreign entity. the amendment requires an entity that ceases to have a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets within a foreign entity to release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income. accordingly, the cumulative translation adjustment should be released into net income only if the sale or transfer results in the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity in which the subsidiary or group of assets had resided. this guidance is effective for our interim and annual reporting periods in 2014. the adoption of this update did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. discontinued operations in april 2014, the fasb issued an asu, reporting discontinued operations and disclosures of disposals of components of an entity , that raises the threshold for a disposal to qualify as a discontinued operation and requires new disclosures of both discontinued operations and certain other disposals that do not meet the definition of a discontinued operation. the asu is aimed at reducing the frequency of disposals reported as discontinued operations by focusing on strategic shifts that have or will have a major effect on an entity's operations and financial reports. in addition, the guidance permits companies to have continuing cash flows and significant continuing involvement with the disposed component. the asu is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after december 15, 2014 and must be applied prospectively. early adoption is permitted for disposals (or classifications as held for sale) that have not been reported in financial statements previously issued or available for issue. the adoption of this asu is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. revenue recognition in may 2014, the fasb issued an asu, revenue from contracts with customers . the new revenue recognition standard provides a five step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. the new model will require revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. this asu is effective for annual periods beginning after december 15, 2016 and shall be applied retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. we are currently assessing the impact of the adoption of this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements, including which transition method will be applied. going concern in august 2014, the fasb issued an asu, presentation of financial statements-going concern: disclosure of uncertainties about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern . the new standard defines management's responsibility to assess an entity's ability to continue as a going concern, and to provide related footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. this guidance will be effective for all entities in the first annual period ending after december 15, 2016; however, early adoption is permitted. the adoption of this asu is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. it em 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. we actively monitor these exposures. historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. our objective is 51 to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. it is our policy not to trade in financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate globally and we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure. foreign currency translation risk is the risk that exchange rate gains or losses arise from translating foreign entities' statements of earnings and balance sheets from functional currency to our reporting currency (the u.s. dollar) for consolidation purposes. translation risk exposure is managed by creating natural hedges in our financing or by using derivative financial instruments aimed at offsetting certain exposures in the statement of earnings or the balance sheet. we do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. the table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013: u.s. dollars euro other currencies year ended december 31, 2014 revenues 56 % 11 % 33 % operating costs 53 % 11 % 36 % year ended december 31, 2013 revenues 52 % 12 % 36 % operating costs 51 % 12 % 37 % based on the year ended december 31, 2014, a one cent change in the u.s. dollar/euro exchange rate would have impacted revenues by approximately $5 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income. we have operations in both our buy and watch segments in venezuela and the functional currency for these operations was the venezuelan bolivares fuertes. venezuela's currency has been considered hyperinflationary since january 1, 2010 and local currency transactions have been denominated in u.s. dollars since january 1, 2010 and will continue to be until venezuela's currency is deemed to be non-hyperinflationary. in february 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency by 32%. the official exchange rate moved from 4.30 to 6.30 and the regulated system of transactions with securities in foreign currency market was suspended. as a result of this change, we recorded a charge of $12 million in 2013 in foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities. during 2014, as a result of further changes associated with the venezuelan currency exchange rate mechanisms, we changed the exchange rate used to remeasure our venezuelan subsidiaries' financial statements in u.s. dollars. based on facts and circumstances present at march 31, 2014, we began using the exchange rate determined by periodic auctions for u.s. dollars conducted under venezuela's complementary system of foreign currency administration ( sicad i ). as a result of exchange agreement no. 25 between the central bank of venezuela and the venezuelan government, we believed that any future remittances for royalty and dividend payments would be transacted at the sicad i exchange rate. accordingly, because the equity of the venezuelan subsidiary would be realized through the payment of royalties and dividends, the sicad i exchange rate represented a more realistic exchange rate at which to remeasure the u.s. dollar value of the bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of our venezuelan subsidiaries in the consolidated financial statements. however, since its implementation, we have not been successful in gaining access to u.s. dollars through sicad i. due to the lack of access to the sicad i auction system, as of december 31, 2014 we decided it was more likely that it would be able to gain access to u.s. dollars through the sicad ii mechanism to settle transactions conducted by the company in venezuela as it was created to provide an open mechanism that permits any company to request u.s. dollars for any purpose. accordingly, we concluded that the sicad ii exchange rate should be used to re-measure its bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2014. at december 31, 2014, the sicad ii exchange rate was 50.0 bolivars to the u.s. dollar, compared with the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar and the sicad i exchange rate of 12.0 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. as a result of these changes, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $52 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 in foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net in the consolidated statement of operations, reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities in the our venezuelan operations. 52 we will continue to assess the appropriate conversion rate based on events in venezuela and the company's specific facts and circumstances. interest rate risk we continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerations in the u.s. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. at december 31, 2014, we had $3,758 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities, of which $2,601 million (excluding $500 million of forward interest swaps effective after december 31, 2014) was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. a one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $12 million ($38 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). in november 2014, we entered into a $250 million in notional amount of two-year forward interest swap agreement with a starting date in may 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rate of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.78%. this derivative instrument has been designated as interest rate cash flow hedge. in november 2014, we entered into a $250 million in notional amount of two-year forward interest swap agreement with a starting date in september 2015. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rate of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.26%. this derivative instrument has been designated as interest rate cash flow hedge. in october and november 2013, we entered into $1,000 million in aggregate notional amount of three-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2013. these agreements fix the libor related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a weighted average rate of 0.46%. the commencement date of these interest rate swaps coincided with the $1,000 million aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in november 2013. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in july 2013, we entered into $575 million in aggregate notional amount of three-year interest swap agreements with starting dates in july 2013. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.67%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in november 2012, we entered into $500 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2012. these agreements fix the libor related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a weighted average rate of 0.57%. the commencement date of these interest rate swaps coincided with the $500 million aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in november 2012. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in november 2011, we entered into a $125 million notional amount and a 125 million notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2011. these agreements fix the libor and euro libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 0.84% and 1.30%, respectively. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in august 2011, we entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year forward interest swap agreements with starting dates in september 2011. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.84%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. we do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transactions were executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties. 53risk factors 13 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in countries with currencies other than the u.s. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. 34 dollars using end-of-period exchange rates; revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1. 11 to 1.00, $1. 33 to 1.00 and $1. 33 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 201 5 , 201 4 and 201 3 , respectively. constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations. we have operations in both the buy and watch segments in venezuela and the functional currency for these operations was the venezuelan bolivares fuertes ( bolivars ). venezuela's currency has been considered hyperinflationary since january 1, 2010 and, accordingly, the local currency transactions have been denominated in u.s. dollars since january 1, 2010 and will continue to be until venezuela's currency is deemed to be non-hyperinflationary. since early 2013, there have been a number of changes in the foreign exchange regime in venezuela that have impacted the conversion rates used by us for the conversion of bolivars into u.s. dollars in its financial statements, resulting in foreign currency exchange transaction losses in the consolidated statement of operations, reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities in our venezuelan operations. in february 2013, the official exchange rate was moved from 4.30 to 6.30 bolivars to the u.s. dollar and the regulated system of transactions with securities in foreign currency market was suspended. based on facts and circumstances present at march 31, 2014, we began using the exchange rate determined by periodic auctions for u.s. dollars conducted under venezuela's complementary system of foreign currency administration ( sicad i ) as the sicad i exchange rate represented what was the most realistic official exchange rate at which to remeasure the u.s. dollar value of the bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of our venezuelan operations at that time. at march 31, 2014, the sicad i exchange rate was 10.8 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. as a result of this change, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $20 million during the first quarter of 2014. due to the lack of access to the sicad i auction system throughout the remainder of 2014, as of december 31, 2014 we decided it was more likely that we would be able to gain access to u.s. dollars through the sicad ii mechanism to settle transactions conducted by the company in venezuela as sicad ii was created to provide a more open mechanism that was designed to permit any company to request u.s. dollars for any purpose. at december 31, 2014, the sicad ii exchange rate was 50.0 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. as a result of changes in exchange rate assumptions, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $32 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 and a total of $52 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. on february 12, 2015, the venezuelan government replaced sicad ii with a new foreign exchange market mechanism ( simadi ). we currently expect to be able to access u.s. dollars through the simadi market. simadi has significantly higher foreign exchange rates than those available through the other foreign exchange mechanisms. at december 31, 2015, the simadi exchange rate was 198.7 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. as a result of this change, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $8 million during the year ended december 31, 2015. we will continue to assess the appropriate conversion rate based on events in venezuela and our specific facts and circumstances. total net monetary assets in u.s. dollars at the december 31, 2015 simadi rate totaled $3 million. we evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. the constant currency presentation, which is a non-gaap financial measure, excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of our business performance and is consistent with how management evaluates the company's performance. we calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency financial results using the current period exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. this calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with gaap nor should such amounts be considered in isolation. 35 results of operations years ended december 31, 201 5 , 201 4 and 201 3 the following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our consolidated statements of operations: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 revenues $ 6,172 $ 6,288 $ 5,703 cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 2,539 2,620 2,398 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,915 1,917 1,815 depreciation and amortization 574 573 510 restructuring charges 51 89 119 operating income 1,093 1,089 861 interest income 4 3 2 interest expense (311 ) (300 ) (309 ) foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net (31 ) (71 ) (25 ) other income/(expense), net 206 (100 ) (9 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net (loss)/income of affiliates 961 621 520 provision for income taxes (383 ) (236 ) (91 ) equity in net (loss)/income of affiliates (3 ) (4 ) 2 income from continuing operations 575 381 431 income from discontinued operations, net of tax 305 net income 575 381 736 net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 5 (3 ) (4 ) net income attributable to nielsen stockholders $ 570 $ 384 $ 740 net income to adjusted ebitda reconciliation we define adjusted ebitda as net income or loss from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, stock-based compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items specifically described below. adjusted ebitda is not a presentation made in accordance with gaap, and our use of the term adjusted ebitda may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. we use adjusted ebitda to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. in addition to adjusted ebitda being a significant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-gaap financial information is viewed with gaap financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. adjusted ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. adjusted ebitda has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. 36 the below table presents a reconciliation from net income to adjusted ebitda for the years ended december 31, 201 5 , 201 4 and 201 3 : year ended december 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 net income $ 575 $ 381 $ 736 income from discontinued operations, net (305 ) interest expense, net 307 297 307 provision for income taxes 383 236 91 depreciation and amortization 574 573 510 ebitda 1,839 1,487 1,339 equity in net loss/(income) of affiliates 3 4 (2 ) other non-operating (income)/expense, net (175 ) 171 34 restructuring charges 51 89 119 stock-based compensation expense 48 47 47 other items (a) 92 39 80 adjusted ebitda $ 1,858 $ 1,837 $ 1,617 (a) for the years ended december 31, 2015, other items consist of a $36 million donation to the nielsen foundation, $14 million charge for the partial settlement of certain u.s. pension plan participants, and other non-recurring costs. for the year ended december 31, 2014, other items primarily consist of non-recurring items. for the year ended december 31, 2013, other items consist primarily of one-time items associated with the acquisition of arbitron, including non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction-related costs consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 revenues revenues decreased 1.8% to $6,172 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $6,288 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, or an increase of 5.0% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 6.8% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our buy segment decreased 5.1%, or an increase of 5.0% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 10.1% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our watch segment increased 2.2%, or 4.9% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.7% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. refer to the business segment results section for further di cussion of our revenue performance. cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues decreased 3.1% to $2,539 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $2,620 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, or an increase of 3.7% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 6.8% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment decreased 5.9%, or an increase of 3.5% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 9.4% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, cost of revenues increased due to the continued global investments in our services. costs within our watch segment increased 1.5%, or 4.5% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 3.0% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, cost of revenues increased due to higher spending on product portfolio management initiatives, including our digital and marketing effectiveness product offerings. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 0.1% to $1,915 for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $1,917 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, or an increase of 7.4% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 7.5% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment decreased 3.7%, or an increase of 5.7% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 9.4% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, selling, general and administrative expenses increased due to continued global investments associated with our services. 37 costs within our watch segment decreased 2.8%, or an increase 0.4 % on a consta nt currency basis. e xcluding a 3.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, selling, genera l and administrative expenses in creased due to increased investment in product development initiatives , partially offset by arbitron integration activities that occurred in the second half of 2014 . corporate costs increased by $62 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, primarily due to a $36 million donation to the nielsen foundation and a $14 million charge for the partial settlement of certain u.s. pension plans. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $574 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to $573 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $205 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $204 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. restructuring charges we recorded $51 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2015, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives. we recorded $89 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2014, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2015 was $1,093 million compared to operating income of $1,089 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. operating income within our buy segment increased to $369 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $358 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. operating income within our watch segment increased to $880 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $836 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. corporate operating expenses increased to $156 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. interest expense interest expense was $311 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to $300 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. this increase is primarily related to the higher debt balances due to the issuance of $750 million 5.00% senior notes in february 2015 partially offset by the partial refinancing of the 7.75% senior notes in april 2014 and the refinancing of the remaining 7.75% senior notes in july 2014. foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain cash, external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.11 to 1.00 and $1.33 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. we realized net losses of $31 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, resulting primarily from the revaluation of our u.s. denominated debt and cash held in euro functional currency entities of $14 million, the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivars of $8 million as discussed in the foreign currency section of factors affecting nielsen's financial results , as well as the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions, partially offset by a gain of $2 million associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments. we incurred $71 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended december 31, 2014, resulting primarily from changes to the venezuelan exchange rate mechanisms as discussed in the foreign currency section of factors affecting nielsen's financial results as well as the fluctuation in u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate associated with our european revolving credit facility and the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. 38 other income/( expense ) , net other income, net of $206 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 is primarily related to the gains recorded from the step acquisition of ncs in the amount of $158 million, sale of an equity investment in the amount of $30 million and the disposition of nrg in the amount of $18 million. other expense, net of $100 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 is primarily related to the make-whole premium associated with the redemption of our 7.75% senior notes due 2018, as well as the write-off of certain previously capitalized debt financing fees associated with the class d and e term loans and certain costs incurred in connection with the refinancings. income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $961 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to $621 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 were 40% and 38%, respectively. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2015 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities and foreign distributions. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2014 was higher than the statutory expense rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities and foreign distributions, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities. at december 31, 2015 and 2014, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $461 million and $452 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 of $34 million and $41 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $42 million to $74 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 1.1% to $1,858 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $1,837 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, or 7.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 6.1% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 30.10% for the year ended december 31, 2015 from 29.21% for the year ended december 31, 2014. see results of operations years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 for the reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to the year ended december 31, 2013 revenues revenues increased 10.3% to $6,288 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $5,703 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, or 12.4% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 2.1% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of the arbitron and harris interactive acquisitions, revenues increased 2.4% (4.5% on a constant currency basis). revenues within our buy segment increased 3.4% (6.3% on a constant currency basis). excluding the impact from the harris interactive acquisition, buy segment revenues increased 0.8% (3.6% on a constant currency basis). revenues within our watch segment increased 20.4% (21.3% on a constant currency basis). excluding the impact from the arbitron acquisition, revenues within our watch segment increased 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis). 39 cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 9.3% to $2,620 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $2,398 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, or 10.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 1.5% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment increased 7.1% (9.3% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to the harris interactive acquisition in february 2014 and the continued global expansion of our services. costs within our watch segment increased 11.1% (11.7% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the arbitron acquisition on september 30, 2013 partially offset by the impact of productivity initiatives. corporate costs increased by approximately $17 million in 2014 as compared to 2013. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative expenses increased 5.6% to $1,917 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $1,815 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, or an increase of 7.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment increased 0.9 % (3.5% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to the harris interactive acquisition in february 2014, as well as other investments associated with the expansion of our services. costs within our watch segment increased 21.7% (22.4% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the arbitron acquisition on september 30, 2013, as well as the impact of other investments in product development initiatives. corporate costs decreased by $10 million due to higher transaction-related costs in 2013. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations was $573 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to $510 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the increase was primarily driven by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with the assets acquired in business acquisitions. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $204 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $162 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. restructuring charges we recorded $89 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2014, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives. we recorded $119 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2013, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives and contract termination costs. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2014 was $1,089 million compared to operating income of $861 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. operating income within our buy segment decreased to $358 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $399 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. operating income within our watch segment increased to $836 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $570 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. corporate operating expenses decreased to $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $108 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. interest expense interest expense was $300 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to $309 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the decline primarily related to the refinancing of term loan a and b in february 2013, the maturity of the mandatory convertible debt in february 2013, the refinancing of the 11.625% senior notes in october 2013, and the refinancing of the 7.75% senior notes in april and july 2014 partially offset by the increased debt balance in september 2013 related to arbitron acquisition financing and the interest expense allocated to our discontinued operations in the year ended december 31, 2013 as discussed in the discontinued operations section in factors affecting nielsen's financial results above. foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain cash, external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.33 to 1.00 in each of the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013. 40 we incurred $71 million in net foreign currency exchange loss es for the year ended december 31, 2014, resulting primarily from changes to the venezuelan exchange rate mechanisms as discussed in the foreign currency section of factors affecting nielsen's financial results as well as the fluctuation in u.s. to eur o exchange rate associated with our european revolving credit facility and the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. we incurred $25 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended december 31, 2013, resulting primarily from the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivars as discussed in the foreign currency section of factors affecting nielsen's financial results as well as the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. other income/(expense), net other expense, net of $100 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 is primarily related to the make-whole premium associated with the redemption of our 7.75% senior notes due 2018, as well as the write-off of certain previously capitalized debt financing fees associated with the class d and e term loans and certain costs incurred in connection with the refinancings. the $9 million of other expense, net for the year ended december 31, 2013 consists primarily of the write-off of debt financing costs and other costs of $12 million associated with the amendment to our credit agreement (as defined below), charges of $12 million associated with the unused bridge loan terminated as part of the arbitron acquisition and charges of approximately $8 million related to the redemption of all of our 11.625% senior notes due 2014, partially offset by the gain of $24 million from the step acquisition of scarborough. income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $621 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to $520 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 were 38% and 18%, respectively. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2014 was higher than the dutch statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities and foreign distributions, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2013 was lower than the statutory expense rate due to the favorable impact of certain financing activities, release of valuation allowances and favorable impacts of provision to return adjustments. at december 31, 2014 and 2013, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $452 million and $475 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 of $41 million and $52 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $23 million to $45 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 13.6% to $1,837 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $1,617 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, or 16.5% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 29.21% for the year ended december 31, 2014 from 28.35% for the year ended december 31, 2013. see results of operations years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013) for the reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda. 41 business segment results for the year ended december 31, 201 5 compared to the year ended december 31, 201 4 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2015 year ended december 31, 2014 % variance 2015 vs. 2014 reported year ended december 31, 2014 constant currency % variance 2015 vs. 2014 constant currency developed markets $ 2,301 $ 2,390 (3.7 )% $ 2,224 3.5 % emerging markets 1,044 1,133 (7.9 )% 962 8.5 % buy segment $ 3,345 $ 3,523 (5.1 )% $ 3,186 5.0 % audience measurement (video and text) $ 1,840 $ 1,784 3.1 % $ 1,729 6.4 % audio 504 498 1.2 % 498 1.2 % marketing effectiveness 282 239 18.0 % 233 21.0 % other watch 201 244 (17.6 )% 234 (14.1 )% watch segment 2,827 2,765 2.2 % 2,694 4.9 % total $ 6,172 $ 6,288 (1.8 )% $ 5,880 5.0 % buy segment revenues revenues decreased 5.1% to $3,345 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $3,523 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, or an increase of 5.0% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 10.1% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues from developed markets decreased 3.7% to $2,301 million, or an increase of 3.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 7.2% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue grew as a result of continued investments in products such as advanced analytics, segmentation and innovation as well as growth in our subscription-based products. revenues from emerging markets decreased 7.9% to $1,044 million, or an increase of 8.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 16.4% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was driven by broad-based demand for our services from both our multinational and local client bases with double-digit growth in latin america, africa, middle east and greater china. watch segment revenues revenues increased 2.2% to $2,827 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $2,765 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 or an increase of 4.9% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.7% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was driven by growth in audience measurement (video and text), which increased 3.1%, or 6.4% on a constant currency basis, due to the resilience in our core television audience measurement, our investments in exelate and ncs, as well as our continued investment in digital. our marketing effectiveness offerings grew 18.0%, or 21.0% on a constant currency basis, as we continue to invest in the product portfolio while meeting the market's growing demand for our marketing roi products. however, this gain was partially offset by a decrease of 17.6%, or 14.1% on a constant currency basis, in our other watch products as we continue to run off the legacy online rankings product and exit non-core media analytics products. business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is 42 important to note that th e non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-g aap measures may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and have important limitations as analytical tools. accordingly, they should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2015 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 369 $ 32 $ 207 $ 15 $ 1 $ 624 watch 880 14 363 8 4 1,269 corporate and eliminations (156 ) 5 4 25 87 (35 ) total nielsen $ 1,093 $ 51 $ 574 $ 48 $ 92 $ 1,858 year ended december 31, 2014 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 358 $ 64 $ 224 $ 14 $ (2 ) $ 658 watch 836 14 343 10 11 1,214 corporate and eliminations (105 ) 11 6 23 30 (35 ) total nielsen $ 1,089 $ 89 $ 573 $ 47 $ 39 $ 1,837 (1) for the years ended december 31, 2015, other items consist of a $36 million donation to the nielsen foundation, $14 million charge for the partial settlement of certain u.s. pension plans, and other non-recurring costs. for the year ended december 31, 2014, other items primarily consist of non-recurring items. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2015 year ended december 31, 2014 % variance 2015vs. 2014 reported year ended december 31, 2014 constant currency % variance 2015 vs. 2014 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 624 $ 658 (5.2 )% $ 579 7.8 % watch 1,269 1,214 4.5 % 1,190 6.6 % corporate and eliminations (35 ) (35 ) na (35 ) na total nielsen $ 1,858 $ 1,837 1.1 % $ 1,734 7.2 % buy segment profitability operating income was $369 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to $358 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 as the decrease in revenue mentioned above was more than offset by lower restructuring charges and a decrease in depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 7.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 13.0% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. watch segment profitability operating income was $880 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to $836 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. the increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, as well as a decrease in non-recurring costs, outlined in the table above, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 6.6% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.1% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $156 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 primarily due to increases in non-recurring costs outlined in the table above. 43 business segment results for the year ended december 31, 201 4 compared to the year ended dec ember 31, 201 3 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to the year ended december 31, 2013, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2014 year ended december 31, 2013 % variance 2014 vs. 2013 reported year ended december 31, 2013 constant currency % variance 2014 vs. 2013 constant currency developed markets $ 2,390 2,292 4.3 % 2,279 4.9 % emerging markets 1,133 1,114 1.7 % 1,035 9.5 % buy segment (a ) 3,523 $ 3,406 3.4 % $ 3,314 6.3 % audience measurement (video and text) $ 1,784 $ 1,694 5.3 % $ 1,679 6.3 % audio 498 139 258.3 % 139 258.3 % marketing effectiveness 239 211 13.3 % 211 13.3 % other watch 244 253 (3.6 )% 250 (2.4 )% watch segment ( b ) 2,765 2,297 20.4 % 2,279 21.3 % total ( c ) $ 6,288 $ 5,703 10.3 % $ 5,593 12.4 % (a) the buy segment includes the results of harris interactive for the year ended december 31, 2014, commencing on february 3, 2014, the acquisition date. excluding the impact from the harris interactive acquisition, total buy revenue was $3,434, an increase of 0.8% (3.6% on a constant currency basis). (b) the watch segment includes the arbitron (nielsen audio) results for the full year 2014 and for the fourth quarter of 2013. excluding the impact from the arbitron acquisition, total watch revenue was $2,269 million, an increase of 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis) (c) total nielsen revenue includes both arbitron (full period) and harris interactive (from february 3, 2014) for the year ended december 31, 2014. excluding the impact from the two acquisitions, total nielsen revenue for the year ended december 31, 2014 was $5,703 million, an increase of 2.4% (4.5% on a constant currency basis). buy segment revenues revenues increased 3.4% to $3,523 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $3,406 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 (6.3% on a constant currency basis). excluding the impact of the harris interactive acquisition, revenues increased 0.8% (3.6% on a constant currency basis). revenues from developed markets increased 4.3% to $2,390 million, or an increase of 4.9% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact from the harris interactive acquisition, revenues from developed markets increased 0.4% (1.0% on a constant currency basis). excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue grew as a result of increased demand for our analytical services as well as new clients in developed markets. revenues from emerging markets increased 1.7% to $1,133 million, or an increase of 9.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 7.8% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was driven by our continued commitment to invest in coverage and analytics capabilities, which resulted in broad-based demand for our services within both our multinational and local client bases. for the year ended december 31, 2014, these investments drove double-digit growth in eastern europe, latin america, africa, middle east and greater china. watch segment revenues revenues increased 20.4% to $2,765 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 from $2,297 million for the year ended december 31, 2013, or 21.3% on a constant currency basis. excluding the impact from the arbitron acquisition, revenues increased 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis), driven by the continued strength in audience measurement (video and text) which grew 5.3% (6.3% on a constant currency basis). 44 business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and have important limitations as analytical tools. accordingly, they should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2014 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 358 $ 64 $ 224 $ 14 $ (2 ) $ 658 watch 836 14 343 10 11 1,214 corporate and eliminations (105 ) 11 6 23 30 (35 ) total nielsen $ 1,089 $ 89 $ 573 $ 47 $ 39 $ 1,837 year ended december 31, 2013 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 399 $ 47 $ 199 $ 14 $ 1 $ 660 watch 570 55 302 11 51 989 corporate and eliminations (108 ) 17 9 22 28 (32 ) total nielsen $ 861 $ 119 $ 510 $ 47 $ 80 $ 1,617 (1) for the year ended december 31, 2014, other items consist primarily of non-recurring costs. for the year ended december 31, 2013, other items consist primarily of one-time items associated with the acquisition of arbitron, including non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction-related costs. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2014 year ended december 31, 2013 % variance 2014 vs. 2013 reported year ended december 31, 2013 constant currency % variance 2014 vs. 2013 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 658 $ 660 (0.3 )% $ 629 4.6 % watch 1,214 989 22.8 % 979 24.0 % corporate and eliminations (35 ) (32 ) na (31 ) na total nielsen $ 1,837 $ 1,617 13.6 % $ 1,577 16.5 % buy segment profitability operating income was $358 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to $399 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 as the increase in revenue mentioned above was more than offset by investment in the continued global expansion of our services, higher restructuring charges and an increase in depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 4.6% on a constant currency basis. 45 watch segment profitability operating income was $836 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to $570 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, as well as a decrease in restructuring charges and transaction-related costs partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 24.0% on a constant currency basis. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to $108 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 due to decreases in restructuring charges and depreciation and amortization expense. liquidity and capital resources we have consistently generated strong cash flows from operations, providing a source of funds of $1,179, $1,093 million and $901 million during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. the increase of $86 million in 2015 is primarily due to our focus on working capital management, partially offset by the $30 million cumulative excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation. in addition to the cumulative excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation being presented as a reduction of operating cash flows, this amount is also reflected as an increase to cash flows from financing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows and consequently our total cash flow is unchanged as a result of this item. we provide for additional liquidity through several sources including maintaining an adequate cash balance, access to global funding sources and a committed revolving credit facility. the following table provides a summary of the major sources of liquidity for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013: (in millions) 2015 2014 2013 net cash from operating activities $ 1,179 $ 1,093 $ 901 cash and short-term marketable securities $ 357 $ 273 $ 564 revolving credit facility $ 575 $ 575 $ 635 of the $357 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $317 million was held in jurisdictions outside the u.s. and as a result there may be tax consequences if such amounts were moved out of these jurisdictions or repatriated to the u.s. we regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our u.s. indebtedness and related obligations. the below table illustrates our weighted average interest rate and cash paid for interest over the last three years. 2015 2014 2013 weighted average interest rate 4.04 % 3.79 % 4.28 % cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized (in millions) $ 296 $ 294 $ 304 our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. we believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. we expect the cash flow from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, dividend payments and capital spending over the next year. in addition we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. 46 long-term borrowings the financial accounting standards board issued guidance that requires debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the debt liability rather than an asset as has been previous guidance. these costs will continue to be amortized as interest expense using the effective interest method. we have early adopted this asu and it is reflected in our consolidated financial statements. the following table provides a summary of our outstanding long-term borrowings as of december 31, 2015: (in millions) weighted interest rate carrying amount $1,580 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 2.29% ) due 2019 $ 1,455 $500 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 2.54% ) due 2017 492 $1,100 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 3.29% ) due 2021 1,080 286 million senior secured term loan (euro libor based variable rate of 2.82%) due 2021 305 $575 million senior secured revolving credit facility (euro libor or libor based variable rate) due 2019 164 total senior secured credit facilities (with weighted average interest rate) 2.78 % $ 3,496 $800 million 4.50% senior debenture loan due 2020 792 $625 million 5.50% senior debenture loan due 2021 617 $2,300 million 5.00% senior debenture loan due 2022 2,284 total debenture loans (with weighted average interest rate) 5.22 % $ 3,693 other loans 7 total long-term debt 4.04 % $ 7,196 capital lease and other financing obligations 142 total debt and other financing arrangements $ 7,338 less: current portion of long-term debt, capital lease and other financing obligations and other short-term borrowings 310 non-current portion of long-term debt and capital lease and other financing obligations $ 7,028 term loan facilities in august 2006, certain of our subsidiaries entered into the senior secured credit agreement that was amended and restated in june 2009, february 2012, february 2013 and april 2014 in the current form of the fourth amended and restated credit agreement (the credit agreement ). the senior secured credit agreement provides for term loan facilities as shown in the table above. obligations under the credit agreement are guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly-owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of tnc b.v. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the credit agreement. covenants the credit agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain 47 assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agree ments limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business they conduct. these entities are restricted, subject to certain exceptions, in their ability to transfer their net assets to us. such restricted net assets amounted to approximately $ 5.2 billio n at december 31, 2015 . in addition, these entities are required to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio. the leverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of total net debt (as defined in the credit agreement) at the end of any calendar quarter to covenant ebitda (as defined in the credit agreement) for the four quarters then ended to exceed a specified threshold. the maximum permitted ratio is 5.50 to 1.00. neither we nor tnc b.v. is currently bound by any financial or negat ive covenants contain ed in the c redit a greement. the credit agreement also contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. certain significant financial covenants are described further below. failure to comply with this financial covenant would result in an event of default under our fourth amended and restated credit agreement unless waived by our senior credit lenders. an event of default under our fourth amended and restated credit agreement can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facilities, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. as our failure to comply with the financial covenant described above can cause us to go into default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our fourth amended and restated credit agreement and this covenant are material to us. as of december 31, 2015, we were in full compliance with the financial covenant described above. pursuant to our credit agreement, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our credit agreement to the extent in any full calendar year we generate excess cash flow ( ecf ), as defined in the credit agreement. the percentage of ecf that must be applied as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda, as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. to the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ecf clause; such payment must generally occur on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. at december 31, 2015, our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda was less than 5.00 to 1.00 and therefore no mandatory repayment was required. our next ecf measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2015 results, and although we do not expect to be required to issue any mandatory repayments in 2016 or beyond, it is uncertain at this time if any such payments will be required in future periods. revolving credit facility the credit agreement, also contains a senior secured revolving credit facility under which nielsen finance llc, tnc (us) holdings, inc., and nielsen holding and finance b.v. can borrow revolving loans. the revolving credit facility can also be used for letters of credit, guarantees and swingline loans. the existing revolving credit facility has commitments of $575 million with a final maturity of april 2019. the senior secured revolving credit facility is provided under the credit agreement and so contains covenants and restrictions as noted under the term loan facilities section above. obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by the same entities that guarantee obligations under the credit agreement and senior secured loan agreement. as of december 31, 2015, we had $164 million of borrowings outstanding and outstanding letters of credit of $7 million. as of december 31, 2014, we had $280 million of borrowings outstanding and outstanding letters of credit of $6 million. as of december 31, 2015, we had $404 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility. debenture loans the indentures governing certain of our debenture loans limit the majority of our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. upon a change in control, we are required to make an offer to redeem all of the senior notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. the senior notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by nielsen holdings plc, substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of nielsen holdings plc, and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of nielsen holdings plc. in february 2015, we completed the issuance of $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due 2022. the notes are traded interchangeably with the $750 million and the $800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due 2022 issued in april 2014 and july 2014, respectively. the proceeds from the issuance are being used to make repurchases of our outstanding common stock from time to time, in the open market or otherwise, pursuant to our existing share repurchase program, to reduce outstanding amounts under our revolving credit facility, to pay related fees and expenses, and for general corporate purposes. 48 dividends and share repurchase program we remain committed to driving shareholder value as evidenced in 2013 with the adoption of a quarterly cash dividend policy by our board of directors, under which we have paid $408 million and $356 million in cash dividends during the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will be subject to the board's continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders, and are in compliance with all laws and agreements to which we are subject. the below table summarizes the dividends declared on our common stock during 2014 and 2015. declaration date record date payment date dividend per share february 20, 2014 march 6, 2014 march 20, 2014 $ 0.20 may 1, 2014 june 5, 2014 june 19, 2014 $ 0.25 july 24, 2014 august 28, 2014 september 11, 2014 $ 0.25 october 30, 2014 november 25, 2014 december 9, 2014 $ 0.25 february 19, 2015 march 5, 2015 march 19, 2015 $ 0.25 april 20, 2015 june 4, 2015 june 18, 2015 $ 0.28 july 23, 2015 august 27, 2015 september 10, 2015 $ 0.28 october 29, 2015 november 24, 2015 december 8, 2015 $ 0.28 on february 18, 2016, our board declared a cash dividend of $0.28 per share on our common stock. the dividend is payable on march 17, 2016 to stockholders of record at the close of business on march 3, 2016. our board approved a share repurchase program, as included in the below table, for up to $2 billion of our outstanding common stock. the primary purpose of the program is to return value to shareholders and to mitigate dilution associated with our equity compensation plans. board approval share repurchase authorization ($ in millions) july 25, 2013 $ 500 october 23, 2014 1,000 december 11, 2015 500 total share repurchase authorization $ 2,000 repurchases under these plans are made in accordance with applicable securities laws from time to time in the open market or otherwise depending on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. this program has been executed within the limitations of the existing authority granted at our annual general meeting of shareholders held in 2014 and 2015. as of december 31, 2015, there have been 25,762,411 shares of our common stock purchased at an average price of $44.43 per share (total consideration of approximately $1,144 million) under this program. 49 the following table provides a summary of share repurchase program ac tivity through december 31, 2015 . period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs as of december 31, 2014 11,182,983 $ 42.67 11,182,983 $ 1,022,830,101 2015 activity january 1- 31 1,611,203 44.09 1,611,203 $ 951,797,780 february 1- 28 814,753 $ 43.90 814,753 $ 916,031,448 march 1- 31 772,189 $ 43.76 772,189 $ 882,241,498 april 1-30 1,440,798 $ 45.30 1,440,798 $ 816,973,014 may 1-31 1,222,800 $ 45.37 1,222,800 $ 761,496,406 june 1-30 1,300,836 $ 45.14 1,300,836 $ 702,774,965 july 1-31 1,310,000 $ 45.37 1,310,000 $ 643,345,777 august 1-31 1,853,142 $ 47.25 1,853,142 $ 555,793,238 september 1-30 553,756 $ 47.39 553,756 $ 529,551,668 october 1-31 1,276,829 $ 46.95 1,276,829 $ 469,601,614 november 1-30 1,141,708 $ 47.75 1,141,708 $ 415,084,736 december 1-31 1,281,414 $ 46.50 1,281,414 $ 855,495,985 total 25,762,411 $ 44.43 25,762,411 cash flows 2015 versus 2014 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $1,179 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, compared to $1,093 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. this increase was driven by the adjusted ebitda performance described above, and improved working capital performance on the timing of customer and vendor payments. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), was flat for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to a 1 day increase for the year ended december 31, 2014. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $581 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, compared to $732 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. the primary driver for the decrease was driven by decreased acquisition payments during the year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to the same period as 2014 and, proceeds received from the sale of an equity investment and a subsidiary during the year ended december 31, 2015. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $462 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, compared to $585 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. the decrease in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to decreased net proceeds from the issuance and repayment of debt during the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to the same period of 2014, partially offset by the higher share repurchasing and dividend payments, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, during the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to the same period of 2014. cash flows 2014 versus 2013 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $1,093 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, compared to $901 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. this increase was driven by the adjusted ebitda performance described above and by the timing of vendor payments. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), increased by 1 day for the year ended december 31, 2014 compared to a 1 day decrease for the year ended december 31, 2013. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $732 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, compared to $687 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the primary driver for the increased usage of cash from investing activities was the increase in capital expenditures for the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the same period of 2013. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $585 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, compared to net cash provided by of $83 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the increase in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to the higher share repurchasing and dividend payments, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, during the year ended december 31, 2014 as compared to the same period of 2013 . 50 capital expenditures investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $408 million, $412 million and $374 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. in addition, the company received $7 million of proceeds from the sale of certain property, plant and equipment. commitments and contingencies outsourced services agreements in february 2013, we amended our amended and restated master services agreement (the msa ), dated as of october 1, 2007 with tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (jointly, tcs ). the term of the msa has been extended for an additional three years, so as to expire on december 31, 2020, with a one-year renewal option granted to nielsen. in addition, we have increased our commitment to purchase services from tcs (the minimum commitment ) from $1.0 billion to $2.5 billion over the life of the contract (from october 1, 2007), including a commitment to purchase at least $100 million in services per year (the annual commitment ) until the minimum commitment is met. tcs' charges under the separate global infrastructure services agreement between the parties will be credited against the minimum commitment and the annual commitment. tcs will globally provide us with professional services relating to information technology (including application development and maintenance), business process outsourcing, client service knowledge process outsourcing, management sciences, analytics, and financial planning and analytics. as we order specific services under the agreement, the parties will execute statements of work ( sows ) describing the specific scope of the services to be performed by tcs. the amount of the minimum commitment and the annual commitment may be reduced on the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the agreement or sows, as applicable. cyprus agreement on march 25, 2013, cyprus and certain members of the european union reached an agreement on measures intended to restore the viability of the financial sector of cyprus. as part of these measures cyprus has agreed to downsize its local financial sector including: (1) the immediate dissolution of cyprus popular bank under which equity shareholders, bondholders and uninsured depositors (defined as those with deposits in excess of 100 thousand) will contribute to make up the losses of the bank; and (2) the recapitalization of the bank of cyprus ( boc ) through a deposit/equity conversion of uninsured deposits, with full contribution of equity shareholders and bondholders. currently 37.5% of uninsured deposits of boc have been converted into class a shares with voting and dividend rights. an additional 22.5% have been frozen and may also be partially or fully used to issue new class a shares, as necessary. as a result of this agreement, during the year ended december 31, 2013, we recorded a charge of $4 million in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations representing the uninsured deposits either contributed to make up losses of cyprus popular bank or converted into class a shares of boc, as described above. we do not expect this agreement to significantly impact future operating results. other contractual obligations our other contractual obligations include capital lease obligations (including interest portion), facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal and interest on debt and pension fund obligations. 51 at december 31, 201 5 , the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 201 5 , we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. therefore, $ 495 million of unrecognized tax benefits (which includes interest and penalties of $ 34 million) have been excluded from the co ntractual obligations table below. see note 1 4 income taxes to the consolidated financial statements for a discus sion on income taxes. payments due by period (in millions) total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter capital lease obligations (a) $ 181 $ 38 $ 36 $ 29 $ 19 $ 13 $ 46 operating leases (b) 321 84 69 55 40 25 48 other contractual obligations (c) 521 358 94 48 13 7 1 long-term debt, including current portion (a) 7,196 277 632 202 1,033 806 4,246 interest (d) 1,523 296 275 262 239 228 223 pension fund obligations (e) 27 27 total $ 9,769 $ 1,080 $ 1,106 $ 596 $ 1,344 $ 1,079 $ 4,564 (a) our short-term and long-term debt obligations, including capital lease and other financing obligations, are described in note 11 long-term debt and other financing arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. (b) our operating lease obligations are described in note 16 commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. (c) other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreement, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. we generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. the amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. our remaining commitments as of december 31, 2015 under the outsourced services agreements with tcs have been included above on an estimated basis over the years within the contractual period in which we expect to satisfy our obligations. as of december 31, 2015, the remaining tcs commitment was approximately $168 million. (d) interest payments consist of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt based on libor as of december 31, 2015. (e) our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $25 million, $35 million and $51 million during 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. future minimum pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2016. see note 10 pensions and other post-retirement benefits to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations. guarantees and other contingent commitments at december 31, 2015, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements: sub-lease guarantees. we provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. to date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded. letters of credit. letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $7 million at december 31, 2015. nielsen foundation, inc. in november 2015, we established the nielsen foundation, inc. (the foundation ) for charitable, educational, scientific, and literary purposes including the making of distributions to organizations that qualify as tax exempt organizations under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code. the assets and transactions of the foundation are not included in our consolidated financial statements. donations to the foundation are expensed when committed by us. in december 2015, our board of directors approved an unconditional donation of $36 million to the foundation, which was recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. 52 legal proceedings and contingencies we are subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. while the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. however, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. off-balance sheet arrangements except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources. summary of recent accounting pronouncements consolidation in february 2015, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued accounting standards update ( asu ) 2015-02, consolidation (topic 810): amendments to the consolidation analysis . the new standard is intended to improve targeted areas of the consolidation guidance for legal entities such as limited partnerships, limited liability corporations, and securitization structures. the amendments in the asu affect the consolidation evaluation for reporting organizations. in addition, the amendments in this asu simplify and improve current gaap by reducing the number of consolidation models. this guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2015; however, early adoption is permitted. we are currently assessing the impact of the adoption of this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements. debt issuance costs in april 2015, the fasb issued an asu, simplifying the presentation of debt issuance costs . the new standard changes the presentation of debt issuance costs in financial statements. under the asu, an entity presents such costs in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. amortization of the costs is reported as interest expense. this guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2015; however, early adoption is permitted. we have early adopted this asu and retrospectively adjusted prior period amounts to conform to the current year presentation. the retrospective application of this asu resulted in a reclassification of $8 million from prepaid expenses and other current assets and $42 million from other non-current assets to current portion of long-term debt, capital lease obligations and short-term borrowings and long-term debt and capital lease obligations in our consolidated balance sheet for the year ended december 31, 2014. revenue recognition in may 2014, the fasb issued an asu, revenue from contracts with customers . the new revenue recognition standard provides a five step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. the new model will require revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services and shall be applied retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. the fasb has approved a one year deferral of this standard and is now effective for annual periods beginning after december 15, 2017. we are currently assessing the impact of the adoption of this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements. income taxes in november 2015, the fasb issued asu no. 2015-17, balance sheet classification of deferred taxes, requiring all deferred tax assets and liabilities, and any related valuation allowance, to be classified as noncurrent on the balance sheet. the classification change for all deferred taxes as noncurrent simplifies entities' processes as it eliminates the need to separately identify the net current and net noncurrent deferred tax asset or liability in each jurisdiction and allocate valuation allowances. we elected to prospectively adopt the accounting standard as of december 31, 2015, resulting in a reclassification of our current deferred tax assets and liabilities to the non-current deferred tax assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. prior periods in our consolidated financial statements were not retrospectively adjusted. 53 it em 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. we actively monitor these exposures. historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. our objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. it is our policy not to trade in financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate globally and we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure. foreign currency translation risk is the risk that exchange rate gains or losses arise from translating foreign entities' statements of earnings and balance sheets from functional currency to our reporting currency (the u.s. dollar) for consolidation purposes. translation risk exposure is managed by creating natural hedges in our financing or by using derivative financial instruments aimed at offsetting certain exposures in the statement of earnings or the balance sheet. for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, we recorded a net gain of $2 million and zero, respectively, associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments within foreign currency exchange transactions losses, net in our consolidated statements of operations. we had foreign currency derivative financial instruments outstanding with an immaterial fair value as of december 31, 2015 and no foreign currency derivative instruments outstanding as of december 31, 2014. the table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014: u.s. dollars euro other currencies year ended december 31, 2015 revenues 60 % 9 % 31 % operating costs 57 % 10 % 33 % year ended december 31, 2014 revenues 56 % 11 % 33 % operating costs 53 % 11 % 36 % based on the year ended december 31, 2015, a one cent change in the u.s. dollar/euro exchange rate would have impacted revenues by approximately $5 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income. we have operations in both the buy and watch segments in venezuela and the functional currency for these operations was the venezuelan bolivars. venezuela's currency has been considered hyperinflationary since january 1, 2010 and, accordingly, the local currency transactions have been denominated in u.s. dollars since january 1, 2010 and will continue to be until venezuela's currency is deemed to be non-hyperinflationary. since early 2013, there have been a number of changes in the foreign exchange regime in venezuela that have impacted the conversion rates used by us for the conversion of venezuelan bolivars into u.s. dollars in its financial statements, resulting in foreign currency exchange transaction losses in the consolidated statement of operations, reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities in our venezuelan operations. in february 2013, the official exchange rate was moved from 4.30 to 6.30 bolivars to u.s. dollars and the regulated system of transactions with securities in foreign currency market was suspended. based on facts and circumstances present at march 31, 2014, we began using the exchange rate determined by periodic auctions for u.s. dollars conducted under venezuela's complementary system of foreign currency administration ( sicad i ) as the sicad i exchange rate represented what was the most realistic official exchange rate at which to remeasure the u.s. dollar value of the bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of our venezuelan operations at that time. at march 31, 2014, the sicad i exchange rate was 10.8 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. as a result of this change, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $20 million during the first quarter of 2014. due to the lack of access to the sicad i auction system throughout the remainder of 2014, as of december 31, 2014 we decided it was more likely that we would be able to gain access to u.s. dollars through the sicad ii mechanism to settle transactions 54 conducted by the company in venezuela as sicad ii was created to provide a more open mechanism that was designed to permit any company to request u.s. dol lars for any purpose. at december 31, 2014, the sicad ii exchange rate was 50.0 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. as a result of the changes in exchange rate assumptions, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $32 million for the fourth quarter of 2014 and a total o f $52 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. on february 12, 2015, the venezuelan government replaced sicad ii with a new foreign exchange market mechanism ( simadi ). we currently expect to be able to access u.s. dollars through the simadi market. simadi has significantly higher foreign exchange rates than those available through the other foreign exchange mechanisms. at december 31, 2015, the simadi exchange rate was 198.7 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. as a result of this change, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $8 million during the year ended december 31, 2015. we will continue to assess the appropriate conversion rate based on events in venezuela and our specific facts and circumstances. total net monetary assets in u.s. dollars at the december 31, 2015 simadi rate totaled $3 million. interest rate risk we continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerations in the u.s. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. at december 31, 2015, we had $3,496 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities, of which $2,325 million (excluding $550 million of forward interest swaps effective after december 31, 2015) was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. a one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $12 million ($35 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). in july 2015, we entered into a $150 million in notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in july 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.62%. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in april 2015, we entered into a $150 million in notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in april 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.40%. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in november 2014, we entered into a $250 million in notional amount of two-year forward interest swap agreement with a starting date in may 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rate of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.78%. this derivative instrument has been designated as interest rate cash flow hedge. in november 2014, we entered into a $250 million in notional amount of two-year forward interest swap agreement with a starting date in september 2015. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rate of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.26%. this derivative instrument has been designated as interest rate cash flow hedge. in october and november 2013, we entered into $1,000 million in aggregate notional amount of three-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2013. these agreements fix the libor related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a weighted average rate of 0.46%. the commencement date of these interest rate swaps coincided with the $1,000 million aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in november 2013. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in july 2013, we entered into $575 million in aggregate notional amount of three-year interest swap agreements with starting dates in july 2013. these agreements fix the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.67%. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. in november 2012, we entered into $500 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in november 2012. these agreements fix the libor related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a weighted average rate of 0.57%. the commencement date of these interest rate swaps coincided with the $500 million aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in november 2012. these derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. 55 derivative in struments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. we do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transa ctions were executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties. 56risk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in countries with currencies other than the u.s. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates; revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.11 to 1.00, $1.11 to 1.00 and $1.33 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations. we evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. the constant currency presentation, which is a non-gaap financial measure, excludes the impact of year-over-year fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of our business performance and is consistent with how management evaluates the company's performance. we calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency financial results using the current period exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. this calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with gaap nor should such amounts be considered in isolation. 35 results of operations years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 the following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our consolidated statements of operations: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2016 2015 2014 revenues $ 6,309 $ 6,172 $ 6,288 cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 2,607 2,539 2,620 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,851 1,915 1,917 depreciation and amortization 603 574 573 restructuring charges 105 51 89 operating income 1,143 1,093 1,089 interest income 4 4 3 interest expense (333 ) (311 ) (300 ) foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net (6 ) (31 ) (71 ) other income/(expense), net 8 206 (100 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net loss of affiliates 816 961 621 provision for income taxes (309 ) (383 ) (236 ) equity in net loss of affiliates (3 ) (4 ) net income 507 575 381 net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 5 5 (3 ) net income attributable to nielsen stockholders $ 502 $ 570 $ 384 net income to adjusted ebitda reconciliation we define adjusted ebitda as net income or loss from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, stock-based compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items considered outside the normal course of our continuing operations specifically described below. restructuring charges : we exclude restructuring expenses, which primarily include employee severance, office consolidation and contract termination charges, from our adjusted ebitda to allow more accurate comparisons of the financial results to historical operations and forward-looking guidance. by excluding these expenses from our non-gaap measures, we are better able to evaluate our ability to utilize our existing assets and estimate the long-term value these assets will generate for us. furthermore, we believe that the adjustments of these items more closely correlate with the sustainability of our operating performance. stock-based compensation expense : we exclude the impact of costs relating to stock-based compensation. due to the subjective assumptions and a variety of award types, we believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense, which is typically non-cash, allows for more meaningful comparisons of our operating results to peer companies. stock-based compensation expense can vary significantly based on the timing, size and nature of awards granted. other non-operating income/(expense), net : we exclude foreign currency exchange transaction gains and losses primarily related to intercompany financing arrangements as well as other non-operating income and expense items, such as gains and losses recorded on business combinations or dispositions, sales of investments and early redemption payments made in connection with debt refinancing. we believe that the adjustments of these items more closely correlate with the sustainability of our operating performance. other items : to measure operating performance we exclude certain expenses and gains that arise outside the ordinary course of our continuing operations. such costs primarily include legal settlements, acquisition related expenses and business optimization costs. we believe the exclusion of such amounts allows management and the users of the financial statements to better understand our financial results. adjusted ebitda is not a presentation made in accordance with gaap, and our use of the term adjusted ebitda may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. 36 we use adjusted ebitda to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. in addition to adjusted ebitda being a significant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-gaap financial information is viewed with gaap financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. adjusted ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or loss, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. adjusted ebitda has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. the below table presents a reconciliation from net income to adjusted ebitda for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2016 2015 2014 net income $ 507 $ 575 $ 381 interest expense, net 329 307 297 provision for income taxes 309 383 236 depreciation and amortization 603 574 573 ebitda 1,748 1,839 1,487 equity in net loss of affiliates 3 4 other non-operating (income)/expense, net (2 ) (175 ) 171 restructuring charges 105 51 89 stock-based compensation expense 51 48 47 other items (a) 36 92 39 adjusted ebitda $ 1,938 $ 1,858 $ 1,837 0 (a) for the year ended december 31, 2016, other items primarily consist of business optimization costs. for the year ended december 31, 2015, other items consist of a $36 million donation to the nielsen foundation, $14 million charge for the partial settlement of certain u.s. pension plan participants, and business optimization costs. for the year ended december 31, 2014, other items primarily consist of business optimization costs. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 revenues revenues increased 2.2% to $6,309 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $6,172 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, or an increase of 4.1% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 1.9% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our buy segment decreased 0.7%, or an increase of 2.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 3.0% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our watch segment increased 5.7%, or 6.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. refer to the business segment results section for further di cussion of our revenue performance. cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 2.7% to $2,607 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $2,539 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, or an increase of 5.0% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.3% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment decreased 1.1%, or an increase of 2.4% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 3.3% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, cost of revenues increased due to the continued global investments in our services. costs within our watch segment increased 9.0%, or 9.8% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 0.8% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, cost of revenues increased due to higher spending on product portfolio management initiatives, including our digital and marketing effectiveness product offerings. 37 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 3.3% to $1,851 for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $1,915 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, or a decrease of 1.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.1% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment decreased 0.2%, or an increase of 2.7% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 2.9% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, selling, general and administrative expenses increased due to continued global investments associated with our services. costs within our watch segment decreased 2.7%, or a decrease of 1.8% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 0.9% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to the impact of productivity initiatives. corporate costs decreased by $47 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, primarily due to a $36 million donation to the nielsen foundation and a $14 million charge for the partial settlement of certain u.s. pension plans for the year ended december 31, 2015. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $603 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 as compared to $574 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. this increase was primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization expense associated with assets acquired in business combinations and higher capital expenditures. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $210 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $205 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. restructuring charges we recorded $105 million and $51 million in restructuring charges primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives and contract termination costs for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2016 was $1,143 million compared to operating income of $1,093 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. operating income within our buy segment decreased to $331 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $369 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. operating income within our watch segment increased to $935 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $880 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. corporate operating expenses decreased to $123 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $156 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. interest expense interest expense was $333 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to $311 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. this increase is primarily due to higher average debt balances due to the incurrence of an additional $500 million in senior secured term loan in 2016 and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates. foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain cash, external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.11 to 1.00 for each of the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. we realized net losses of $6 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, resulting primarily from fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions and the loss of $5 million from the revaluation of our u.s.-denominated debt and cash held in euro functional entities, partially offset by a gain of $1 million associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments. 38 we realized net losses of $31 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, resulting primarily from the revaluation of our u.s. denominated debt and cash held in euro functional currency entities of $14 million, the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivars of $8 million as discussed in the foreign currency section of factors affecting nielsen's financial results , as well as the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions, partially offset by a gain of $2 million associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments. other income/(expense), net other income, net of $8 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 is primarily related to the gain of $14 million on the disposition of claritas partially offset by the loss of $4 million related to certain costs incurred in connection with the b-3 term loan refinancing. other income, net of $206 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 is primarily related to the gains recorded from the step acquisition of ncs in the amount of $158 million, sale of an equity investment in the amount of $30 million and the disposition of nrg in the amount of $18 million. income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $816 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to $961 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 were 38% and 40%, respectively. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2016 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities, windfall tax benefits from stock option exercises and releases of uncertain tax positions. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2015 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities and foreign distributions. at december 31, 2016 and 2015, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $432 million and $461 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 of $33 million and $34 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $12 million to $20 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 4.3% to $1,938 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $1,858 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, or 5.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.9% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 30.72% for the year ended december 31, 2016 from 30.10% for the year ended december 31, 2015. see results of operations years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 for the reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda. 39 consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 revenues revenues decreased 1.8% to $6,172 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $6,288 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, or an increase of 5.0% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 6.8% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our buy segment decreased 5.1%, or an increase of 5.0% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 10.1% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our watch segment increased 2.2%, or 4.9% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.7% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. refer to the business segment results section for further di cussion of our revenue performance. cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues decreased 3.1% to $2,539 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $2,620 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, or an increase of 3.7% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 6.8% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment decreased 5.9%, or an increase of 3.5% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 9.4% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, cost of revenues increased due to the continued global investments in our services. costs within our watch segment increased 1.5%, or 4.5% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 3.0% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, cost of revenues increased due to higher spending on product portfolio management initiatives, including our digital and marketing effectiveness product offerings. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 0.1% to $1,915 for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $1,917 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, or an increase of 7.4% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 7.5% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment decreased 3.7%, or an increase of 5.7% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 9.4% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, selling, general and administrative expenses increased due to continued global investments associated with our services. costs within our watch segment decreased 2.8%, or an increase of 0.4% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 3.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, selling, general and administrative expenses increased due to increased investment in product development initiatives, partially offset by arbitron integration activities that occurred in the second half of 2014. corporate costs increased by $62 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, primarily due to a $36 million donation to the nielsen foundation and a $14 million charge for the partial settlement of certain u.s. pension plans. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $574 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to $573 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $205 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $204 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. restructuring charges we recorded $51 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2015, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives. we recorded $89 million in restructuring charges for the year ended december 31, 2014, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives. 40 operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2015 was $1,093 million compared to operating income of $1,089 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. operating income within our buy segment increased to $369 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $358 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. operating income within our watch segment increased to $880 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $836 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. corporate operating expenses increased to $156 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. interest expense interest expense was $311 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to $300 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. this increase is primarily related to the higher debt balances due to the issuance of $750 million 5.00% senior notes in february 2015 partially offset by the partial refinancing of the 7.75% senior notes in april 2014 and the refinancing of the remaining 7.75% senior notes in july 2014. foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain cash, external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.11 to 1.00 and $1.33 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. we realized net losses of $31 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, resulting primarily from the revaluation of our u.s. denominated debt and cash held in euro functional currency entities of $14 million, the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivars of $8 million as discussed in the foreign currency section of factors affecting nielsen's financial results , as well as the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions, partially offset by a gain of $2 million associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments. we incurred $71 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended december 31, 2014, resulting primarily from changes to the venezuelan exchange rate mechanisms as discussed in the foreign currency section of factors affecting nielsen's financial results as well as the fluctuation in u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate associated with our european revolving credit facility and the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. other income/(expense), net other income, net of $206 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 is primarily related to the gains recorded from the step acquisition of ncs in the amount of $158 million, sale of an equity investment in the amount of $30 million and the disposition of nrg in the amount of $18 million. other expense, net of $100 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 is primarily related to the make-whole premium associated with the redemption of our 7.75% senior notes due 2018, as well as the write-off of certain previously capitalized debt financing fees associated with the class d and e term loans and certain costs incurred in connection with the refinancings. income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $961 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to $621 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 were 40% and 38%, respectively. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2015 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities and foreign distributions. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2014 was higher than the statutory expense rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities and foreign distributions, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities. 41 at december 31, 2015 and 2014, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $461 million and $452 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 of $34 million and $41 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $42 million to $74 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 1.1% to $1,858 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $1,837 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, or 7.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 6.1% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 30.10% for the year ended december 31, 2015 from 29.21% for the year ended december 31, 2014. see results of operations years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 for the reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda. business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2016 year ended december 31, 2015 % variance 2016 vs. 2015 reported year ended december 31, 2015 constant currency % variance 2016 vs. 2015 constant currency emerging markets $ 1,063 1,044 1.8 % 979 8.6 % developed markets 2,096 2,110 (0.7 )% 2,077 0.9 % core buy 3,159 3,154 0.2 % 3,056 3.4 % corporate 163 191 (14.7 )% 191 (14.7 )% buy segment $ 3,322 $ 3,345 (0.7 )% $ 3,247 2.3 % marketing effectiveness $ 287 251 14.3 % 247 16.2 % audio 500 504 (0.8 )% 503 (0.6 )% audience measurement (video and text) 1,978 $ 1,840 7.5 % $ 1,827 8.3 % core watch 2,765 2,595 6.6 % 2,577 7.3 % corporate/other watch 222 232 (4.3 )% 234 (5.1 )% watch segment 2,987 2,827 5.7 % 2,811 6.3 % total core (buy/watch) 5,924 5,749 3.0 % 5,633 5.2 % total $ 6,309 $ 6,172 2.2 % $ 6,058 4.1 % buy segment revenues revenues decreased 0.7% to $3,322 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $3,345 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, or an increase of 2.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 3.0% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues from emerging markets increased 1.8% to $1,063 million, or an increase of 8.6% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 6.8% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was driven by our continued commitment to invest in coverage, which resulted in broad based demand for our services with both our multinational and local clients. for the year ended december 31, 2016, these investments drove double-digit growth in south east asia along with high single-digit growth in latin america, eastern europe and china and mid single-digit growth in india. 42 revenues from developed markets decreased 0.7% to $2,096 million, or an increase of 0.9% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 1.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenues increased as a result of modest strength in western europe, partially offset by softness in our u.s. market. revenues from corporate buy decreased 14.7% to $163 million on an actual and constant currency basis. corporate includes slow growth and non-core services that are part of portfolio pruning initiatives. watch segment revenues revenues increased 5.7% to $2,987 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $2,827 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 or an increase of 6.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was primarily driven by growth in audience measurement of video and text, which increased 7.5% (8.3% on a constant currency basis) due to our ongoing investments and continued client adoption of our total audience measurement systems. audio revenues decreased 0.8% on a reported basis or 0.6% on a constant currency basis. our marketing effectiveness offerings grew 14.3% (16.2% on a constant currency basis), due to our investments in our product portfolio and client's growing demand for our advertising roi and precision targeting tools. corporate/other watch revenues decreased by 4.3% (5.1% on a constant currency basis) due to the sale of the national research group, inc., which was completed in the fourth quarter of 2015. our core watch services grew 6.6%, or 7.3% on a constant currency basis. business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and have important limitations as analytical tools. accordingly, they should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2016 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 331 $ 61 $ 212 $ 16 $ 3 $ 623 watch 935 18 387 10 2 1,352 corporate and eliminations (123 ) 26 4 25 31 (37 ) total nielsen $ 1,143 $ 105 $ 603 $ 51 $ 36 $ 1,938 year ended december 31, 2015 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 369 $ 32 $ 207 $ 15 $ 1 $ 624 watch 880 14 363 8 4 1,269 corporate and eliminations (156 ) 5 4 25 87 (35 ) total nielsen $ 1,093 $ 51 $ 574 $ 48 $ 92 $ 1,858 (1) for the years ended december 31, 2016, other items consist of primarily of business optimization costs. for the years ended december 31, 2015, other items consist of a $36 million donation to the nielsen foundation, $14 million charge for the partial settlement of certain u.s. pension plans, and business optimization costs. 43 (in millions) year ended december 31, 2016 year ended december 31, 2015 % variance 2016 vs. 2015 reported year ended december 31, 2015 constant currency % variance 2016 vs. 2015 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 623 $ 624 (0.2 )% $ 613 1.6 % watch 1,352 1,269 6.5 % 1,264 7.0 % corporate and eliminations (37 ) (35 ) na (35 ) na total nielsen $ 1,938 $ 1,858 4.3 % $ 1,842 5.2 % buy segment profitability operating income was $331 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 as compared to $369 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. the decrease was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, higher restructuring charges and an increase in depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 1.6% on a constant currency basis. watch segment profitability operating income was $935 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 as compared to $880 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. the increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense and restructuring charges. non-gaap business segment income increased 7.0% on a constant currency basis. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $123 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 as compared to $156 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 primarily due to decreases in other items outlined in the table above partially offset by the increase in restructuring charges in 2016. business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the year ended december 31, 2014, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. year ended december 31, 2015 year ended december 31, 2014 % variance 2015 vs. 2014 reported year ended december 31, 2014 constant currency % variance 2015 vs. 2014 constant currency emerging markets $ 1,044 $ 1,133 (7.9 )% $ 962 8.5 % developed markets 2,110 2,200 (4.1 )% 2,038 3.5 % core buy 3,154 3,333 (5.4 )% 3,000 5.1 % corporate 191 190 0.5 % 186 2.7 % buy segment $ 3,345 $ 3,523 (5.1 )% $ 3,186 5.0 % marketing effectiveness 251 215 16.7 % 210 19.5 % audio 504 498 1.2 % 498 1.2 % audience measurement (video and text) 1,840 1,784 3.1 % 1,729 6.4 % core watch 2,595 2,497 3.9 % 2,437 6.5 % corporate/other watch 232 268 (13.4 )% 257 (9.7 )% watch segment 2,827 2,765 2.2 % 2,694 4.9 % total core (buy/watch) 5,749 5.830 (1.4 )% 5,437 5.7 % total $ 6,172 $ 6,288 (1.8 )% $ 5,880 5.0 % 44 buy segment revenues revenues decreased 5.1% to $3,345 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $3,523 million for the year ended december 31, 2014, or an increase of 5.0% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 10.1% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues from emerging markets decreased 7.9% to $1,044 million, or an increase of 8.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 16.4% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was driven by broad-based demand for our services from both our multinational and local client bases with double-digit growth in latin america, africa, middle east and greater china. revenues from developed markets decreased 4.1% to $2,110 million, or an increase of 3.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 7.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue grew as a result of continued investments in products such as advanced analytics, segmentation and innovation as well as growth in our subscription-based products. revenues from corporate buy increased 0.5% to $191 million, or an increase of 2.7% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.2% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. corporate includes slow growth and non-core services that are part of portfolio pruning initiatives. watch segment revenues revenues increased 2.2% to $2,827 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 from $2,765 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 or an increase of 4.9% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.7% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was driven by growth in audience measurement (video and text), which increased 3.1%, or 6.4% on a constant currency basis, due to the resilience in our core television audience measurement, our investments in exelate and ncs, as well as our continued investment in digital. our marketing effectiveness offerings grew 16.7%, or 19.5% on a constant currency basis, as we continue to invest in the product portfolio while meeting the market's growing demand for our marketing roi products. however, this gain was partially offset by a decrease of 13.4%, or 9.7% on a constant currency basis, in our corporate/other watch products as we continue to run off the legacy online rankings product and exit non-core media analytics products. our core watch services grew 3.9%, or 6.5% on a constant currency basis. 45 business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and have important limitations as analytical tools. accordingly, they should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2015 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 369 $ 32 $ 207 $ 15 $ 1 $ 624 watch 880 14 363 8 4 1,269 corporate and eliminations (156 ) 5 4 25 87 (35 ) total nielsen $ 1,093 $ 51 $ 574 $ 48 $ 92 $ 1,858 year ended december 31, 2014 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 358 $ 64 $ 224 $ 14 $ (2 ) $ 658 watch 836 14 343 10 11 1,214 corporate and eliminations (105 ) 11 6 23 30 (35 ) total nielsen $ 1,089 $ 89 $ 573 $ 47 $ 39 $ 1,837 (1) for the years ended december 31, 2015, other items consist of a $36 million donation to the nielsen foundation, $14 million charge for the partial settlement of certain u.s. pension plans, and business optimization costs. for the year ended december 31, 2014, other items primarily consist of business optimization costs. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2015 year ended december 31, 2014 % variance 2015vs. 2014 reported year ended december 31, 2014 constant currency % variance 2015 vs. 2014 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 624 $ 658 (5.2 )% $ 579 7.8 % watch 1,269 1,214 4.5 % 1,190 6.6 % corporate and eliminations (35 ) (35 ) na (35 ) na total nielsen $ 1,858 $ 1,837 1.1 % $ 1,734 7.2 % buy segment profitability operating income was $369 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to $358 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 as the decrease in revenue mentioned above was more than offset by lower restructuring charges and a decrease in depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 7.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 13.0% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 46 watch segment profitability operating income was $880 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to $836 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. the increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, as well as a decrease in non-recurring costs, outlined in the table above, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 6.6% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.1% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $156 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to $105 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 primarily due to increases in non-recurring costs outlined in the table above. liquidity and capital resources cash flows from operations provided a source of funds of $1,296 million, $1,209 million and $1,093 million during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. this increase was driven primarily by the adjusted ebitda performance discussed above and our focus on working capital management, partially offset by our $36 million cash contribution to the nielsen foundation during the year ended december 31, 2016 and higher interest payments during the year ended december 31, 2016 based on a higher debt balance and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates. we provide for additional liquidity through several sources, including maintaining an adequate cash balance, access to global funding sources and a committed revolving credit facility. the following table provides a summary of the major sources of liquidity for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014: (in millions) 2016 2015 2014 net cash from operating activities $ 1,296 $ 1,209 $ 1,093 cash and short-term marketable securities $ 754 $ 357 $ 273 revolving credit facility $ 575 $ 575 $ 575 of the $754 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $515 million was held in jurisdictions outside the u.s. and as a result there may be tax consequences if such amounts were moved out of these jurisdictions or repatriated to the u.s. we regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our u.s. indebtedness and related obligations. the below table illustrates our weighted average interest rate and cash paid for interest over the last three years. 2016 2015 2014 weighted average interest rate 4.04 % 4.04 % 3.79 % cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized (in millions) $ 319 $ 296 $ 294 our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. we believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. we expect the cash flow from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, dividend payments and capital spending over the next year. in addition, we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. 47 long-term borrowings the following table provides a summary of our outstanding long-term borrowings as of december 31, 2016: (in millions) weighted interest rate carrying amount $2,080 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 2.65%) due 2019 $ 1,768 $1,900 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 3.15% ) due 2023 1,892 380 million senior secured term loan (euro libor based variable rate of 2.11%) due 2021 399 total senior secured credit facilities (with weighted average interest rate) 2.95 % $ 4,059 $800 million 4.50% senior debenture loan due 2020 794 $625 million 5.50% senior debenture loan due 2021 618 $2,300 million 5.00% senior debenture loan due 2022 2,285 total debenture loans (with weighted average interest rate) 5.22 % $ 3,697 other loans 7 total long-term debt 4.04 % $ 7,763 capital lease and other financing obligations 158 bank overdrafts 5 total debt and other financing arrangements $ 7,926 less: current portion of long-term debt, capital lease and other financing obligations and other short-term borrowings 193 non-current portion of long-term debt and capital lease and other financing obligations $ 7,733 term loan facilities in april 2014, certain of our subsidiaries entered into the fourth amended and restated senior secured credit agreement (the fourth amended and restated credit agreement , and as subsequently amended, the amended credit agreement ). the amended credit agreement provides for term loan facilities as shown in the table above. in march 2016, we entered into an amendment to our fourth amended and restated credit agreement, providing for additional class a term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million, maturing in full in april 2019 (the additional class a term loans ). the additional class a term loans are required to be repaid in quarterly installments ranging from 1.369% to 4.11% of the original principal amount (as may be reduced as a result of voluntary prepayments), with the balance payable on the maturity date. the additional class a term loans bear interest equal to, at our election, a base rate or eurocurrency rate, in each case plus an applicable margin which ranges from 0.50% to 1.25% (in the case of base rate loans) or 1.50% to 2.25% (in the case of eurocurrency rate loans). the specific applicable margin is determined by our total leverage ratio (as defined in the amended credit agreement). this amendment was accounted for as a modification of the amended credit agreement. in october 2016, we entered into a second amendment to our fourth amended and restated credit agreement, providing for (i) an incremental facility of class b-2 euro term loans in an aggregate principal amount of 380 million, the proceeds of which were used to replace or refinance the existing class b-2 euro term loans and to repay certain other indebtedness, and (ii) a new class of term loans, class b-3 term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $1,900 million, the proceeds of which were used to replace or refinance in full a like amount of our applicable existing class b-1 term loans that were maturing in may 2017 and class b-2 dollar term loans that were maturing in april 2021 and to repay certain other indebtedness. the incremental class b-2 euro term loans will mature in full in april 2021 and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in an aggregate annual amount equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount of incremental class b-2 euro term loans, with the balance payable in april 2021. the class b-3 term loans will mature in full in october 2023 and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in an aggregate annual amount equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount of class b-3 term loans, with the balance payable in october 2023. 48 class b-2 euro term loans will bear interest equal to the eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin, which is equal to 2.50%. class b-3 term loans bear interest equal to, at our election, a base rate or eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin, which is equal to 2.50% (in the case of eurocurrency loans) or 1.50% (in the case of base rate loans). this amendment was accounted for as a modification of the amended credit agreement. the amended credit agreement contains the same affirmative and negative covenants as those of the fourth amended and restated credit agreement prior to the 2016 amendments. obligations under the amended credit agreement are guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly-owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of tnc b.v. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the amended credit agreement. covenants the amended credit agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business they conduct. these entities are restricted, subject to certain exceptions, in their ability to transfer their net assets to us. such restricted net assets amounted to approximately $4.2 billion at december 31, 2016. in addition, these entities are subject to a total leverage covenant. the leverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of total net debt (as defined in the amended credit agreement) at the end of any calendar quarter to consolidated ebitda (as defined in the amended credit agreement) for the four quarters then ended to exceed a specified threshold. the maximum permitted ratio is 5.50 to 1.00. neither we nor tnc b.v. is currently bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the amended credit agreement. the amended credit agreement also contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. certain significant financial covenants are described further below. failure to comply with this financial covenant would result in an event of default under our amended credit agreement unless waived by certain of our term lenders and our revolving lenders. an event of default under our amended credit agreement can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facilities, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. as our failure to comply with the financial covenant described above can cause us to go into default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our amended credit agreement and this covenant are material to us. as of december 31, 2016, we were in full compliance with the financial covenant described above. pursuant to our amended credit agreement, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our amended credit agreement to the extent in any full calendar year we generate excess cash flow ( ecf ), as defined in the amended credit agreement. the percentage of ecf that must be applied as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda, as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. to the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ecf clause; such payment must generally occur on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. at december 31, 2016, our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda was less than 5.00 to 1.00 and therefore no mandatory repayment was required. our next ecf measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2017 results, and although we do not expect to be required to issue any mandatory repayments in 2018 or beyond, it is uncertain at this time if any such payments will be required in future periods. revolving credit facility the amended credit agreement also contains a senior secured revolving credit facility under which nielsen finance llc, tnc (us) holdings, inc., and nielsen holding and finance b.v. can borrow revolving loans. the revolving credit facility can also be used for letters of credit, guarantees and swingline loans. the existing revolving credit facility has commitments of $575 million with a final maturity of april 2019. 49 the senior secured revolving credit facility is provided under the amended credit agreement and so contains covenants and restrictions as noted under the term loan facilities section above. obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by the same entities that guarantee obligations under the amended credit agreement and senior secured loan agreement. as of december 31, 2016, we had zero borrowings outstanding and outstanding letters of credit of $6 million. as of december 31, 2015, we had $164 million of borrowings outstanding and outstanding letters of credit of $7 million. as of december 31, 2016, we had $569 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility. debenture loans the indentures governing certain of our debenture loans limit the majority of our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. upon a change in control, we are required to make an offer to redeem all of the senior notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. the senior notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by nielsen holdings plc, substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of nielsen holdings plc, and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of nielsen holdings plc. subsequent event in january 2017, we completed the issuance of $500 million aggregated principal amount of 5.0% senior notes due 2025 at par, with cash proceeds of approximately $495 million, net of fees and expenses. dividends and share repurchase program we remain committed to driving shareholder value as evidenced in 2013 with the adoption of a quarterly cash dividend policy by our board of directors, under which we have paid $434 million and $408 million in cash dividends during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will be subject to the board's continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders, and are in compliance with all laws and agreements to which we are subject. the below table summarizes the dividends declared on our common stock during 2015 and 2016. declaration date record date payment date dividend per share february 19, 2015 march 5, 2015 march 19, 2015 $ 0.25 april 20, 2015 june 4, 2015 june 18, 2015 $ 0.28 july 23, 2015 august 27, 2015 september 10, 2015 $ 0.28 october 29, 2015 november 24, 2015 december 8, 2015 $ 0.28 february 18, 2016 march 3, 2016 march 17, 2016 $ 0.28 april 19, 2016 june 2, 2016 june 16, 2016 $ 0.31 july 21, 2016 august 25, 2016 september 8, 2016 $ 0.31 october 20, 2016 november 22, 2016 december 6, 2016 $ 0.31 on february 16, 2017, our board declared a cash dividend of $0.31 per share on our common stock. the dividend is payable on march 16, 2017 to stockholders of record at the close of business on march 2, 2017. our board approved a share repurchase program, as included in the below table, for up to $2 billion of our outstanding common stock. the primary purpose of the program is to return value to shareholders and to mitigate dilution associated with our equity compensation plans. board approval share repurchase authorization ($ in millions) july 25, 2013 $ 500 october 23, 2014 1,000 december 11, 2015 500 total share repurchase authorization $ 2,000 50 repurchases under these plans are made in accordance with applicable securities laws from time to time in the open market or otherwise depending on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. this program has been executed within the limitations of the existing authority granted at our annual general meeting of shareholders held in 2014, 2015 and 2016. as of december 31, 2016, there have been 33,837,526 shares of our common stock purchased at an average price of $46.16 per share (total consideration of approximately $1,562 million) under this program. the following table provides a summary of share repurchase program activity through december 31, 2016. period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs as of december 31, 2015 25,762,411 $ 44.43 25,762,411 $ 855,495,985 2016 activity january 1- 31 628,054 $ 45.62 628,054 $ 826,841,315 february 1- 28 687,473 $ 47.41 687,473 $ 794,246,197 march 1- 31 429,617 $ 51.48 429,617 $ 772,128,085 april 1-30 1,368,352 $ 52.91 1,368,352 $ 699,730,694 may 1-31 1,320,614 $ 52.23 1,320,614 $ 630,761,673 june 1-30 1,478,685 $ 53.84 1,478,685 $ 551,145,264 july 1-31 1,286,936 $ 53.66 1,286,936 $ 482,094,449 august 1-31 224,800 $ 53.61 224,800 $ 470,042,455 september 1-30 183,968 $ 53.01 183,968 $ 460,290,434 october 1-31 139,937 $ 51.73 139,937 $ 453,051,573 november 1-30 326,679 $ 46.17 326,679 $ 437,970,016 december 1-31 $ $ 437,970,016 total 33,837,526 $ 46.16 33,837,526 cash flows 2016 versus 2015 operating activities . net cash provided by operating activities was $1,296 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, compared to $1,209 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. this increase was driven primarily by the adjusted ebitda performance discussed above and our focus on working capital management, partially offset by our $36 million cash contribution to the nielsen foundation during the year ended december 31, 2016 and higher interest payments during the year ended december 31, 2016 based on a higher debt balance and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), decreased by 3 days for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to a 1 day increase for the year ended december 31, 2015. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $642 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, compared to $581 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. the increase was primarily driven by increased acquisition payments and capital expenditures during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to 2015. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $248 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, compared to $492 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. the decrease in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to lower share repurchasing, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, and increased net proceeds from the issuance and repayment of debt during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period of 2015, partially offset by higher dividend payments, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, and an increase in capital lease financing during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period of 2015. cash flows 2015 versus 2014 operating activities. net cash provided by operating activities was $1,209 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, compared to $1,093 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. this increase was driven by the adjusted ebitda performance described above, and improved working capital performance on the timing of customer and vendor payments. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), was flat for the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to a 1 day increase for the year ended december 31, 2014. 51 investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $581 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, compared to $732 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. the decrease was primarily driven by decreased acquisition payments during the year ended december 31, 2015, as compared to 2014 and proceeds received from the sale of an equity investment and a subsidiary during the year ended december 31, 2015. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $492 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, compared to $585 million for the year ended december 31, 2014. the decrease in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to increased net proceeds from the issuance and repayment of debt during the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to 2014, partially offset by the higher share repurchasing and dividend payments, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, during the year ended december 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 . capital expenditures investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $433 million, $408 million and $412 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. in addition, the company received $42 million and $7 million of proceeds from the sale of certain property, plant and equipment and other assets during the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. commitments and contingencies outsourced services agreements in february 2013, we amended our amended and restated master services agreement (the msa ), dated as of october 1, 2007, with tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (jointly, tcs ). the term of the msa has been extended for an additional three years, so as to expire on december 31, 2020, with a one-year renewal option granted to nielsen. in addition, we have increased our commitment to purchase services from tcs (the minimum commitment ) from $1.0 billion to $2.5 billion over the life of the contract (from october 1, 2007), including a commitment to purchase at least $100 million in services per year until calendar year 2020 when the per year commitment is reduced to $75 million, (the annual commitment ). we met the minimum commitment in 2016. tcs' charges under the separate global infrastructure services agreement between the parties will be credited against the minimum commitment and the annual commitment. tcs will globally provide us with professional services relating to information technology (including application development and maintenance), business process outsourcing, client service knowledge process outsourcing, measurement sciences, analytics, and financial planning and analytics. as we order specific services under the agreement, the parties will execute statements of work ( sows ) describing the specific scope of the services to be performed by tcs. the amount of the minimum commitment and the annual commitment may be reduced on the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the agreement or sows, as applicable. nielsen foundation, inc. in november 2015, we established the nielsen foundation, inc. (the foundation ) for charitable, educational, scientific, and literary purposes including the making of distributions to organizations that qualify as tax exempt organizations under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code. the assets and transactions of the foundation are not included in our consolidated financial statements. donations to the foundation are expensed when committed by us. in december 2015, our board of directors approved an unconditional donation of $36 million to the foundation, at which time it was recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. in march 2016, we paid the cash contribution to the foundation. other contractual obligations our other contractual obligations include capital lease obligations (including interest portion), facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal and interest on debt and pension fund obligations. 52 at december 31, 2016, the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2016, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. therefore, $465 million of unrecognized tax benefits (which includes interest and penalties of $33 million) have been excluded from the contractual obligations table below. see note 14 income taxes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. payments due by period (in millions) total 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter capital lease obligations (a) $ 193 $ 48 $ 48 $ 30 $ 21 $ 13 $ 33 operating leases (b) 341 85 69 53 35 26 73 other contractual obligations (c) 775 289 212 153 106 9 6 long-term debt, including current portion (a) 7,763 143 278 1,397 814 1,021 4,110 interest (d) 1,501 316 300 268 252 210 155 pension fund obligations (e) 21 21 total $ 10,594 $ 902 $ 907 $ 1,901 $ 1,228 $ 1,279 $ 4,377 (a) our short-term and long-term debt obligations, including capital lease and other financing obligations, are described in note 11 long-term debt and other financing arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. (b) our operating lease obligations are described in note 16 commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. (c) other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreements, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. we generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. the amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. our remaining commitments as of december 31, 2016, under the outsourced services agreement with tcs have been included above based on the annual commitment minimum required payments. (d) interest payments consist of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt based on libor as of december 31, 2016. (e) our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $21 million, $25 million and $35 million during 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. future minimum pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2017. see note 10 pensions and other post-retirement benefits to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations. guarantees and other contingent commitments at december 31, 2016, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements: sub-lease guarantees. we provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. to date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded. letters of credit. letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $6 million at december 31, 2016. legal proceedings and contingencies we are subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. while the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. however, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 53 off-balance sheet arrangements except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources. summary of recent accounting pronouncements revenue recognition in may 2014, the fasb issued an accounting standards update ( asu ), revenue from contracts with customers . the new revenue recognition standard provides a five step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. the new model will require revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services and shall be applied retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. this standard is effective for annual periods beginning after december 15, 2017. in 2014, we established a cross-functional implementation team consisting of representatives from across all of our business segments. we utilized a bottoms-up approach to analyze the impact of the standard on our contract portfolio by reviewing our current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to our revenue contracts. in addition, we identified, and are in the process of implementing appropriate changes to our business processes, systems and controls to support the recognition and disclosure under the new standard. based on our preliminary assessment, we do not believe the adoption of this asu will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. we are continuing to assess which transition method we will use to adopt this asu. classification and measurement of financial instruments in january 2016, the fasb issued an asu , recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities . the new standard was issued to amend the guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments. the new standard significantly revises an entity's accounting related to the classification and measurement of investments in equity securities and the presentation of certain fair value changes for financial liabilities measured at fair value. the new standard also amends certain disclosure requirements associated with the fair value of financial instruments. the new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2017. early adoption for most of the provisions is not allowed. we are currently assessing the impact the adoption of this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements. leases in february 2016, the fasb issued an asu, leases . the new standard amends the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases currently classified as operating leases and amends disclosure requirements associated with leasing arrangements. the new standard increases assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. the new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018. early adoption is permitted. the new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition, and provides for certain practical expedients. transition will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. w e are currently assessing the impact the adoption of this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements. investments- equity method and joint ventures in march 2016, the fasb issued an asu, investments- equity method and joint ventures: simplifying the transition to the equity method of accounting . this new standard eliminates the requirement to apply the equity method of accounting retrospectively when a reporting entity obtains significant influence over a previously held investment. this guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2016. under the provisions of this asu, when circumstances dictate that an investment accounted for under the cost method should no longer be a cost method investee but be accounted for under the equity method, there will no longer be a required retrospective restatement. we are currently assessing the impact the adoption of this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements. compensation- stock compensation in march 2016, the fasb issued an asu, compensation - stock compensation (topic 718): improvements to employee share-based payment accounting . the new standard simplifies several aspects related to the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the accounting for income taxes, statutory tax withholding requirements, forfeitures and classification on the statement of cash flows. this guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2016; however, early adoption is permitted. we elected to early adopt this asu and as a result recorded a $47 million 54 cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of january 1, 2016 related to previously unrecognized excess tax benefits. during 2016 we recorded $19 million of excess tax benefits to the provision for income taxes in our consolidated statement of operations. further, we elected to apply the retrospective transition method to the amendments related to the presentation of excess tax benefits on the statement of cash flows. this change resulted in a $30 million increase to operating cash flow and a $30 million decrease to cash flows from financing activities for the year ended december 31, 2015. financial instruments credit losses in june 2016, the fasb issued an asu, financial instruments credit losses (topic 326), measurement of credit losses on financial instruments . the standard significantly changes how entities will measure credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments that are not measured at fair value through net income. the standard will replace today's incurred loss approach with an expected loss model for instruments measured at amortized cost. for available-for-sale debt securities, entities will be required to record allowances rather than reduce the carrying amount, as they do today under the other-than-temporary impairment model. it also simplifies the accounting model for purchased credit-impaired debt securities and loans. the new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2019. early adoption is permitted for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018. we are currently assessing the impact the adoption of this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements. statement of cash flows classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in august 2016, the fasb issued asu 2016-15, statement of cash flows- classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments . the standard addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under topic 230, statement of cash flow, and other topics. asu 2016-15 is effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods therein, beginning after december 15, 2017. we do not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. business combinations in january 2017, the fasb issued asc 2017-01, business combinations (topic 805), clarifying the definition of a business . the updated standard provides guidance to assist entities with evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business. under the new guidance, an entity first determines whether substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. if this threshold is met, the set is not a business. if it is not met, the entity then evaluates whether the set meets the requirements that a business include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. the updated guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2017 and interim periods within those years. the asu will be applied prospectively to any transaction occurring within the period of adoption. early adoption is permitted, including for interim and annual periods in which the financial statements have not been issued or made available for issuances. we elected to early adopt the asu effective october 1, 2016. there was no impact on our consolidated financial statements. it em 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. we actively monitor these exposures. historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. our objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. it is our policy not to trade in financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate globally and we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure. 55 for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, we recorded a net gain of $1 million and $2 million , respectively, associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments within foreign currency exchange transacti ons losses, net in our consolidated statem ents of operations. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, the notional amounts of outstanding foreign currency derivative financial instrument were $77 million and $37 million, respectively. the table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015: u.s. dollars euro other currencies year ended december 31, 2016 revenues 61 % 9 % 30 % operating costs 57 % 10 % 33 % year ended december 31, 2015 revenues 60 % 9 % 31 % operating costs 57 % 10 % 33 % based on the year ended december 31, 2016, a one cent change in the u.s. dollar/euro exchange rate would have impacted revenues by approximately $5 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income. interest rate risk we continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerations in the u.s. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. at december 31, 2016, we had $4,059 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities, of which $1,050 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. a one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $30 million ($41 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). in june 2016, we entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of june 9, 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.86%. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in july 2015, we entered into a $150 million in notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in july 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.62%. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in april 2015, we entered into a $150 million in notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in april 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.40%. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in november 2014, we entered into a $250 million in notional amount of two-year forward interest swap agreement with a starting date in may 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rate of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.78%. this derivative instrument has been designated as interest rate cash flow hedge. in november 2014, we entered into a $250 million in notional amount of two-year forward interest swap agreement with a starting date in september 2015. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rate of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.26%. this derivative instrument has been designated as interest rate cash flow hedge. derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. we do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transactions were executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties. 56risk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in countries with currencies other than the u.s. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates; revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.13 to 1.00, $1.11 to 1.00 and $1.11 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations. we evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. the constant currency presentation, which is a non-gaap financial measure, excludes the impact of year-over-year fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of our business performance and is consistent with how management evaluates the company's performance. we calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency financial results using the current period exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. this calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with gaap nor should such amounts be considered in isolation. results of operations years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 the following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our consolidated statements of operations: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2017 2016 2015 revenues $ 6,572 $ 6,309 $ 6,172 cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 2,765 2,607 2,539 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,862 1,851 1,915 depreciation and amortization 640 603 574 restructuring charges 80 105 51 operating income 1,225 1,143 1,093 interest income 4 4 4 interest expense (374 ) (333 ) (311 ) foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net (10 ) (6 ) (31 ) other (expense)/income, net (17 ) 8 206 income before income taxes and equity in net loss of affiliates 828 816 961 provision for income taxes (388 ) (309 ) (383 ) equity in net loss of affiliates (3 ) net income 440 507 575 net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 11 5 5 net income attributable to nielsen stockholders $ 429 $ 502 $ 570 net income to adjusted ebitda reconciliation we define adjusted ebitda as net income or loss from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, stock-based compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items considered outside the normal course of our operations specifically described below. restructuring charges : we exclude restructuring expenses, which primarily include employee severance, office consolidation and contract termination charges, from our adjusted ebitda to allow more accurate comparisons of the financial results to historical operations and forward-looking guidance. by excluding these expenses from our non-gaap measures, we are better able to evaluate our ability to utilize our existing assets and estimate the long-term value these assets will generate for us. furthermore, we believe that the adjustments of these items more closely correlate with the sustainability of our operating performance. 40 stock-based compensation expense : we exclude the impact of costs relating to stock-based compensation. due to the subjective assumptions and a variety of award types, we believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense, which is typically non-cash, allows for more meaningful comparisons of our operating results to peer companies. stock-based compensation expense can vary significantly based on the timing, size and nature of awards granted. other non-operating (expense)/income, net : we exclude foreign currency exchange transaction gains and losses primarily related to intercompany financing arrangements as well as other non-operating income and expense items, such as gains and losses recorded on business combinations or dispositions, sales of investments, net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and early redemption payments made in connection with debt refinancing. we believe that the adjustments of these items more closely correlate with the sustainability of our operating performance. other items : to measure operating performance, we exclude certain expenses and gains that arise outside the ordinary course of our operations. such costs primarily include legal settlements, acquisition related expenses, business optimization costs and other transactional costs. we believe the exclusion of such amounts allows management and the users of the financial statements to better understand our financial results. adjusted ebitda is not a presentation made in accordance with gaap, and our use of the term adjusted ebitda may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. we use adjusted ebitda to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. in addition to adjusted ebitda being a significant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-gaap financial information is viewed with gaap financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. adjusted ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or loss, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. adjusted ebitda has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. the below table presents a reconciliation from net income to adjusted ebitda for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2017 2016 2015 net income attributable to nielsen stockholders $ 429 $ 502 $ 570 interest expense, net 370 329 307 provision for income taxes 388 309 383 depreciation and amortization 640 603 574 ebitda 1,827 1,743 1,834 equity in net loss of affiliates 3 other non-operating expense/(income), net 38 3 (170 ) restructuring charges 80 105 51 stock-based compensation expense 45 51 48 other items (a) 45 36 92 adjusted ebitda $ 2,035 $ 1,938 $ 1,858 (a) for the year ended december 31, 2017, other items primarily consist of transaction related costs and business optimization costs. for the year ended december 31, 2016, other items primarily consist of business optimization costs. for the year ended december 31, 2015, other items primarily consists of a $36 million donation to the nielsen foundation, a $14 million charge for the partial settlement of certain u.s. pension plan participants, and business optimization costs. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to the year ended december 31, 2016 revenues revenues increased 4.2% to $6,572 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $6,309 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, or an increase of 3.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.4% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our buy segment decreased 2.7%, or 3.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.6% 41 unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our watch segment increased 11.9%, or 11.7% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.2% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. refer to the business segment results section for further di cussion of our revenue performance. cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 6.1% to $2,765 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $2,607 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, or an increase of 5.7% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.4% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment increased 0.7%, or 0.1% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 0.6% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, cost of revenues increased primarily due to the continued global investment in our services. costs within our watch segment increased 11.2% on a reported and constant currency basis. cost of revenues increased primarily due to the impact of the gracenote acquisition. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative expenses increased 0.6% to $1,862 for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $1,851 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, or 0.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.1% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment decreased 5.7%, or 5.8% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 0.1% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to productivity initiatives including dispositions as we continue to execute our portfolio pruning initiatives. costs within our watch segment increased 17.9%, or 17.7% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 0.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to the impact of the gracenote acquisition. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $640 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 as compared to $603 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. this increase was primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangible assets acquired as part of the gracenote acquisition on february 1, 2017. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $219 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $210 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. restructuring charges we recorded $80 million and $105 million in restructuring charges primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives and contract termination costs for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2017 was $1,225 million compared to operating income of $1,143 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. operating income within our buy segment decreased to $322 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $331 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. operating income within our watch segment increased to $1,033 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $935 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. corporate operating expenses increased to $130 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $123 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. interest expense interest expense was $374 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to $333 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. this increase is primarily related to higher average debt balances including the incurrence of an additional $500 million 5.00% senior notes in january 2017 and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates. 42 foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain cash, external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.13 to 1.00 and $1.11 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. we realized net losses of $10 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, resulting primarily from fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. we realized net losses of $6 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, resulting primarily from fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions and the loss of $5 million from the revaluation of our u.s.-denominated debt and cash held in euro functional entities, partially offset by a gain of $1 million associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments. other (expense)/income, net other expense, net of $17 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 is primarily related to the finalization of working capital and other matters associated with dispositions. other income, net of $8 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 is primarily related to the gain of $14 million on the dispositions partially offset by the loss of $4 million related to certain costs incurred in connection with the b-3 term loan refinancing. income before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $828 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to $816 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 were 47% and 38%, respectively. our effective tax rate of 47% for the year ended december 31, 2017 was significantly impacted by the tcj act. those impacts are described further in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. excluding the impact of the tcj act, our effective tax rate was 34% for the year ended december 31, 2017. it was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of the tcj act as well as tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities and releases of valuation allowances. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2016 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities, windfall tax benefits from stock option exercises and releases of uncertain tax positions. at december 31, 2017 and 2016, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $452 million and $432 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 of $53 million and $33 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $5 million to $18 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. other factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to, the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized, and audits by taxing authorities. 43 adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 5.0% to $2,035 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $1,938 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, or 4.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.7% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 30.96% for the year ended december 31, 2017 from 30.72% for the year ended december 31, 2016. see results of operations years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 for the reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 revenues revenues increased 2.2% to $6,309 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $6,172 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, or an increase of 4.1% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 1.9% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our buy segment decreased 0.7%, or an increase of 2.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 3.0% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our watch segment increased 5.7%, or 6.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. refer to the business segment results section for further di cussion of our revenue performance. cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 2.7% to $2,607 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $2,539 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, or an increase of 5.0% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.3% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment decreased 1.1%, or an increase of 2.4% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 3.3% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, cost of revenues increased due to the continued global investments in our services. costs within our watch segment increased 9.0%, or 9.8% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 0.8% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, cost of revenues increased due to higher spending on product portfolio management initiatives, including our digital and marketing effectiveness product offerings. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 3.3% to $1,851 for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $1,915 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, or a decrease of 1.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.1% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. costs within our buy segment decreased 0.2%, or an increase of 2.7% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 2.9% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, selling, general and administrative expenses increased due to continued global investments associated with our services. costs within our watch segment decreased 2.7%, or a decrease of 1.8% on a constant currency basis. excluding a 0.9% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to the impact of productivity initiatives. corporate costs decreased by $47 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, primarily due to a $36 million donation to the nielsen foundation and a $14 million charge for the partial settlement of certain u.s. pension plans for the year ended december 31, 2015. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $603 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 as compared to $574 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. this increase was primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization expense associated with assets acquired in business combinations and higher capital expenditures. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $210 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $205 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. 44 restructuring charges we recorded $105 million and $51 million in restructuring charges primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives and contract termination costs for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. operating income operating income for the year ended december 31, 2016 was $1,143 million compared to operating income of $1,093 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. operating income within our buy segment decreased to $331 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $369 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. operating income within our watch segment increased to $935 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $880 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. corporate operating expenses decreased to $123 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $156 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. interest expense interest expense was $333 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to $311 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. this increase is primarily due to higher average debt balances due to the incurrence of an additional $500 million in senior secured term loan in 2016 and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates. foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain cash, external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.11 to 1.00 for each of the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. we realized net losses of $6 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, resulting primarily from fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions and the loss of $5 million from the revaluation of our u.s.-denominated debt and cash held in euro functional entities, partially offset by a gain of $1 million associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments. we realized net losses of $31 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, resulting primarily from the revaluation of our u.s. denominated debt and cash held in euro functional currency entities of $14 million, the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivars of $8 million as discussed in the foreign currency section of factors affecting nielsen's financial results, as well as the fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions, partially offset by a gain of $2 million associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments. other income/(expense), net other income, net of $8 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 is primarily related to the gain of $14 million on dispositions partially offset by the loss of $4 million related to certain costs incurred in connection with the b-3 term loan refinancing. other income, net of $206 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 is primarily related to the gains recorded from the step acquisition of nielsen catalina solutions in the amount of $158 million, sale of an equity investment in the amount of $30 million and the disposition of national research group in the amount of $18 million. income from before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $816 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to $961 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 were 38% and 40%, respectively. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2016 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities, windfall tax benefits from stock option exercises and releases of uncertain tax positions. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2015 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax 45 returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities and foreign distributions. at december 31, 2016 and 2015, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $432 million and $461 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 of $33 million and $34 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $12 million to $20 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 4.3% to $1,938 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $1,858 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, or 5.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.9% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 30.72% for the year ended december 31, 2016 from 30.10% for the year ended december 31, 2015. see results of operations years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 for the reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda. business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to the year ended december 31, 2016 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to the year ended december 31, 2016, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2017 year ended december 31, 2016 % variance 2017 vs. 2016 reported year ended december 31, 2016 constant currency % variance 2017 vs. 2016 constant currency emerging markets $ 1,164 1,063 9.5 % 1,070 8.8 % developed markets 1,999 2,096 (4.6 )% 2,108 (5.2 )% core buy 3,163 3,159 0.1 % 3,178 (0.5 )% corporate 68 163 (58.3 )% 163 (58.3 )% buy segment $ 3,231 $ 3,322 (2.7 )% $ 3,341 (3.3 )% marketing effectiveness $ 350 287 22.0 % 289 21.1 % audio 501 500 0.2 % 500 0.2 % audience measurement (video and text) 2,308 $ 1,978 16.7 % $ 1,984 16.3 % core watch 3,159 2,765 14.2 % 2,773 13.9 % corporate/other watch 182 222 (18.0 )% 218 (16.5 )% watch segment 3,341 2,987 11.9 % 2,991 11.7 % total core (buy/watch) 6,322 5,924 6.7 % 5,951 6.2 % total $ 6,572 $ 6,309 4.2 % $ 6,332 3.8 % buy segment revenues revenues decreased 2.7% to $3,231 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $3,322 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, or 3.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 46 revenues from emerging markets increased 9.5% to $1,164 million, or an increase of 8.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.7% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was driven by our global footprint, coverage expansion and broad product offerings which continue to position us well with both local and multinational clients. for the year ended december 31, 2017, these investments drove double-digit growth in latin america, india and eastern europe along with high single-digit growth in south east asia and africa. revenues from developed markets decreased 4.6% to $1,999 million, or 5.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenues decreased as a result of softness in the u.s. partially offset by growth in our european developed markets. revenues from corporate buy decreased 58.3% to $68 million on a reported and constant currency basis. corporate includes slow growth and non-core services that are part of portfolio pruning initiatives. watch segment revenues revenues increased 11.9% to $3,341 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $2,987 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 or an increase of 11.7% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.2% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the gracenote acquisition, revenues increased 4.7% (4.5% on a constant currency basis). excluding a 0.2% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was primarily driven by growth in audience measurement of video and text, which increased 16.7% (16.3% on a constant currency basis). excluding the gracenote acquisition, audience measurement of video and text revenues increased 5.8% (5.5% on a constant currency basis), due to our ongoing investments and continued client adoption of our total audience measurement initiative. audio revenues increased 0.2% on a reported and constant currency basis. our marketing effectiveness revenue grew 22.0% (21.1% on a constant currency basis), due to the continued strength in audience-based solutions, including data deliveries, that help advertisers and publishers measure the return on investment in media spend and investments in our product portfolio. corporate/other watch revenues decreased by 18.0% (16.5% on a constant currency basis) due to our continued exit of non-core media analytics products. our core watch revenue grew 14.2% (13.9% on a constant currency basis). excluding the gracenote acquisition, our core watch revenue grew 6.5% (6.2% on a constant currency basis). 47 business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision maker and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and have important limitations as analytical tools. accordingly, they should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2017 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 322 $ 42 $ 210 $ 13 $ $ 587 watch 1,033 15 425 12 1,485 corporate and eliminations (130 ) 23 5 20 45 (37 ) total nielsen $ 1,225 $ 80 $ 640 $ 45 $ 45 $ 2,035 year ended december 31, 2016 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 331 $ 61 $ 212 $ 16 $ 3 $ 623 watch 935 18 387 10 2 1,352 corporate and eliminations (123 ) 26 4 25 31 (37 ) total nielsen $ 1,143 $ 105 $ 603 $ 51 $ 36 $ 1,938 (1) for the year ended december 31, 2017, other items consist primarily of transaction related costs and business optimization costs. for the year ended december 31, 2016, other items consist primarily of business optimization costs. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2017 year ended december 31, 2016 % variance 2017 vs. 2016 reported year ended december 31, 2016 constant currency % variance 2017 vs. 2016 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 587 $ 623 (5.8 )% $ 633 (7.3 )% watch 1,485 1,352 9.8 % 1,355 9.6 % corporate and eliminations (37 ) (37 ) na (37 ) na total nielsen $ 2,035 $ 1,938 5.0 % $ 1,951 4.3 % buy segment profitability operating income was $322 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 as compared to $331 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. the decrease was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, partially offset by lower restructuring charges. non-gaap business segment income decreased 7.3% on a constant currency basis. watch segment profitability operating income was $1,033 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 as compared to $935 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. the increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 9.6% on a constant currency basis. 48 corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $130 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 as compared to $123 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, primarily due to an increase in transaction related costs and business optimization costs partially offset by the decrease in restructuring charges and stock-based compensation expense. business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the year ended december 31, 2015, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2016 year ended december 31, 2015 % variance 2016 vs. 2015 reported year ended december 31, 2015 constant currency % variance 2016 vs. 2015 constant currency emerging markets $ 1,063 1,044 1.8 % 979 8.6 % developed markets 2,096 2,110 (0.7 )% 2,077 0.9 % core buy 3,159 3,154 0.2 % 3,056 3.4 % corporate 163 191 (14.7 )% 191 (14.7 )% buy segment $ 3,322 $ 3,345 (0.7 )% $ 3,247 2.3 % marketing effectiveness $ 287 251 14.3 % 247 16.2 % audio 500 504 (0.8 )% 503 (0.6 )% audience measurement (video and text) 1,978 $ 1,840 7.5 % $ 1,827 8.3 % core watch 2,765 2,595 6.6 % 2,577 7.3 % corporate/other watch 222 232 (4.3 )% 234 (5.1 )% watch segment 2,987 2,827 5.7 % 2,811 6.3 % total core (buy/watch) 5,924 5,749 3.0 % 5,633 5.2 % total $ 6,309 $ 6,172 2.2 % $ 6,058 4.1 % buy segment revenues revenues decreased 0.7% to $3,322 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $3,345 million for the year ended december 31, 2015, or an increase of 2.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 3.0% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues from emerging markets increased 1.8% to $1,063 million, or an increase of 8.6% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 6.8% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was driven by our continued commitment to invest in coverage, which resulted in broad based demand for our services with both our multinational and local clients. for the year ended december 31, 2016, these investments drove double-digit growth in south east asia along with high single-digit growth in latin america, eastern europe and china and mid single-digit growth in india. revenues from developed markets decreased 0.7% to $2,096 million, or an increase of 0.9% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 1.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenues increased as a result of modest strength in western europe, partially offset by softness in our u.s. market. revenues from corporate buy decreased 14.7% to $163 million on a reported and constant currency basis. corporate includes slow growth and non-core services that are part of portfolio pruning initiatives. watch segment revenues revenues increased 5.7% to $2,987 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 from $2,827 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 or an increase of 6.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was primarily driven by growth in audience measurement of video and text, which increased 7.5% (8.3% on a constant currency basis) due to our ongoing investments and continued client adoption of our total audience measurement systems. audio revenues decreased 0.8% on a reported basis or 0.6% on a constant currency basis. our marketing effectiveness offerings grew 14.3% (16.2% on a constant currency basis), due to 49 our investments in our product portfolio and client's growing demand for our advertising roi and precision targeting tools. corporate/other watch revenues decreased by 4.3% (5.1% on a constant currency basis) due to the sale of the national research group, inc., which was completed in the fourth quarter of 2015. our core watch services grew 6.6%, or 7.3% on a constant currency basis. business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision maker and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and have important limitations as analytical tools. accordingly, they should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2016 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 331 $ 61 $ 212 $ 16 $ 3 $ 623 watch 935 18 387 10 2 1,352 corporate and eliminations (123 ) 26 4 25 31 (37 ) total nielsen $ 1,143 $ 105 $ 603 $ 51 $ 36 $ 1,938 year ended december 31, 2015 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization stock-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 369 $ 32 $ 207 $ 15 $ 1 $ 624 watch 880 14 363 8 4 1,269 corporate and eliminations (156 ) 5 4 25 87 (35 ) total nielsen $ 1,093 $ 51 $ 574 $ 48 $ 92 $ 1,858 (1) for the year ended december 31, 2016, other items consist primarily of business optimization costs. for the year ended december 31, 2015, other items consist of a $36 million donation to the nielsen foundation, $14 million charge for the partial settlement of certain u.s. pension plans, and business optimization costs. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2016 year ended december 31, 2015 % variance 2016 vs. 2015 reported year ended december 31, 2015 constant currency % variance 2016 vs. 2015 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 623 $ 624 (0.2 )% $ 613 1.6 % watch 1,352 1,269 6.5 % 1,264 7.0 % corporate and eliminations (37 ) (35 ) na (35 ) na total nielsen $ 1,938 $ 1,858 4.3 % $ 1,842 5.2 % buy segment profitability operating income was $331 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 as compared to $369 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. the decrease was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, higher restructuring charges and an increase in depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 1.6% on a constant currency basis. 50 watch segment profitability operating income was $935 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 as compared to $880 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. the increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense and restructuring charges. non-gaap business segment income increased 7.0% on a constant currency basis. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $123 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 as compared to $156 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 primarily due to decreases in other items outlined in the table above, partially offset by the increase in restructuring charges in 2016. liquidity and capital resources cash flows from operations provided a source of funds of $1,310 million, $1,296 million and $1,209 million during the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. this increase was driven primarily by the adjusted ebitda performance discussed above and the $36 million cash contribution to nielsen foundation during the year ended december 31, 2016, partially offset by higher tax payments, and higher interest payments during the year ended december 31, 2017 related to higher debt balances and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates. we provide for additional liquidity through several sources, including maintaining an adequate cash balance, access to global funding sources and a committed revolving credit facility. the following table provides a summary of the major sources of liquidity for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015: (in millions) 2017 2016 2015 net cash from operating activities $ 1,310 $ 1,296 $ 1,209 cash and short-term marketable securities $ 656 $ 754 $ 357 revolving credit facility $ 575 $ 575 $ 575 of the $656 million in cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2017, approximately $520 million was held in jurisdictions outside the u.s. we regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our u.s. indebtedness and related obligations. the below table illustrates our weighted average interest rate and cash paid for interest over the last three years. 2017 2016 2015 weighted average interest rate 4.32 % 4.04 % 4.04 % cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized (in millions) $ 352 $ 319 $ 296 our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. we believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. we expect the cash flow from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, dividend payments and capital spending over the next year. in addition, we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. 51 long-term borrowings the following table provides a summary of our outstanding long-term borrowings as of december 31, 2017: (in millions) weighted interest rate carrying amount $2,080 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 3.43%) due 2019 $ 1,392 $2,250 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 3.43%) due 2023 2,232 380 million senior secured term loan (euro libor based variable rate of 2.10%) due 2021 450 total senior secured credit facilities (with weighted average interest rate) 3.39 % $ 4,074 $800 million 4.50% senior debenture loan due 2020 795 $625 million 5.50% senior debenture loan due 2021 620 $2,300 million 5.00% senior debenture loan due 2022 2,288 $500 million 5.00% senior debenture loan due 2025 496 total debenture loans (with weighted average interest rate) 5.22 % $ 4,199 other loans 1 total long-term debt 4.32 % $ 8,274 capital lease and other financing obligations 167 total debt and other financing arrangements $ 8,441 less: current portion of long-term debt, capital lease and other financing obligations and other short-term borrowings 84 non-current portion of long-term debt and capital lease and other financing obligations $ 8,357 term loan facilities in october 2016, we entered into a second amendment to our fourth amended and restated credit agreement, and as subsequently amended, the ( existing credit agreement ). the existing credit agreement provides for term loan facilities as shown in the table above. in april 2017, we entered into a third amendment to our fourth amended and restated credit agreement (as amended prior to april 2017, the existing credit agreement, and as amended in april 2017 by the third amendment, the amended credit agreement ), providing for a new class of class b-4 term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $2.25 billion, the proceeds of which were used to replace or refinance the entire outstanding principal of existing class b-3 term loans and a portion of existing class a term loans. the class b-4 term loans will mature in full on october 4, 2023, and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in an aggregate annual amount equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount of the class b-4 term loans, with the balance payable on october 4, 2023. the class b-4 term loans bear interest equal to, at our election (i) a base rate or libor rate, plus (ii) an applicable margin, which is equal to 2.00% (in the case of libor loans) or 1.00% (in the case of base rate loans). the amended credit agreement contains the same affirmative and negative covenants as those of the existing credit agreement. obligations under the amended credit agreement are guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly-owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of tnc b.v. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the amended credit agreement. 52 covenants the amended credit agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business they conduct. these entities are restricted, subject to certain exceptions, in their ability to transfer their net assets to us. such restricted net assets amounted to approximately $4.3 billion at december 31, 2017. in addition, these entities are subject to a total leverage covenant. the leverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of total net debt (as defined in the amended credit agreement) at the end of any calendar quarter to consolidated ebitda (as defined in the amended credit agreement) for the four quarters then ended to exceed a specified threshold. the maximum permitted ratio is 5.50 to 1.00. neither we nor tnc b.v. is currently bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the amended credit agreement. the amended credit agreement also contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. certain significant financial covenants are described further below. failure to comply with this financial covenant would result in an event of default under our amended credit agreement unless waived by certain of our term lenders and our revolving lenders. an event of default under our amended credit agreement can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facilities, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. as our failure to comply with the financial covenant described above can cause us to go into default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our amended credit agreement and this covenant are material to us. as of december 31, 2017, we were in full compliance with the financial covenant described above. pursuant to our amended credit agreement, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our amended credit agreement to the extent in any full calendar year we generate excess cash flow ( ecf ), as defined in the amended credit agreement. the percentage of ecf that must be applied as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda, as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. to the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ecf clause; such payment must generally occur on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. at december 31, 2017, our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda was less than 5.00 to 1.00 and therefore no mandatory repayment was required. our next ecf measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2017 results, and although we do not expect to be required to issue any mandatory repayments in 2018 or beyond, it is uncertain at this time if any such payments will be required in future periods. revolving credit facility the amended credit agreement also contains a senior secured revolving credit facility under which nielsen finance llc, tnc (us) holdings, inc., and nielsen holding and finance b.v. can borrow revolving loans. the revolving credit facility can also be used for letters of credit, guarantees and swingline loans. the existing revolving credit facility has commitments of $575 million with a final maturity of april 2019. the senior secured revolving credit facility is provided under the amended credit agreement and so contains covenants and restrictions as noted under the term loan facilities section above. obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by the same entities that guarantee obligations under the amended credit agreement and senior secured loan agreement. as of december 31, 2017, we had zero borrowings outstanding and outstanding letters of credit of $13 million. as of december 31, 2016, we had zero borrowings outstanding and outstanding letters of credit of $6 million. as of december 31, 2017, we had $562 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility. debenture loans the indentures governing certain of our debenture loans limit the majority of our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. upon a change in control, we are required to make an offer to redeem all of the senior notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. the senior notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by nielsen holdings plc, substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of nielsen holdings plc, and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of nielsen holdings plc. 53 in january 2017, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior notes due 2025 at par, with cash proceeds of approximately $495 million, net of fees and expenses. dividends and share repurchase program we remain committed to driving shareholder value as evidenced in 2013 with the adoption of a quarterly cash dividend policy by our board of directors, under which we have paid $474 million and $434 million in cash dividends during the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will be subject to the board's continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders, and are in compliance with all laws and agreements to which we are subject. the below table summarizes the dividends declared on our common stock during 2016 and 2017. declaration date record date payment date dividend per share february 18, 2016 march 3, 2016 march 17, 2016 $ 0.28 april 19, 2016 june 2, 2016 june 16, 2016 $ 0.31 july 21, 2016 august 25, 2016 september 8, 2016 $ 0.31 october 20, 2016 november 22, 2016 december 6, 2016 $ 0.31 february 16, 2017 march 2, 2017 march 16, 2017 $ 0.31 april 24, 2017 june 2, 2017 june 16, 2017 $ 0.34 july 20, 2017 august 24, 2017 september 7, 2017 $ 0.34 october 19, 2017 november 21, 2017 december 5, 2017 $ 0.34 our board of directors approved a share repurchase program, as included in the below table, for up to $2 billion of our outstanding common stock. the primary purposes of the program are to return value to shareholders and to mitigate dilution associated with our equity compensation plans. board approval share repurchase authorization ($ in millions) july 25, 2013 $ 500 october 23, 2014 1,000 december 11, 2015 500 total share repurchase authorization $ 2,000 repurchases under these plans will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws from time to time in the open market or otherwise depending on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. this program has been executed within the limitations of the authority granted by our shareholders. as of december 31, 2017, there have been 37,206,365 shares of our common stock purchased at an average price of $45.74 per share (total consideration of approximately $1,702 million) under this program. 54 the following table provides a summary of share repurchase program activity through december 31, 2017. period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs as of december 31, 2016 33,837,526 $ 46.16 33,837,526 $ 437,970,016 2017 activity january 1- 31 $ 437,970,016 february 1- 28 564,623 $ 45.30 564,623 $ 412,392,848 march 1- 31 365,228 $ 45.15 365,228 $ 395,903,537 april 1-30 $ 395,903,537 may 1-31 1,020,212 $ 40.65 1,020,212 $ 354,426,944 june 1-30 $ 354,426,944 july 1-31 $ 354,426,944 august 1-31 698,062 $ 41.77 698,062 $ 325,268,111 september 1-30 102,461 $ 39.25 102,461 $ 321,246,116 october 1-31 $ 321,246,116 november 1-30 221,845 $ 36.26 326,679 $ 313,201,667 december 1-31 396,408 $ 38.05 396,408 $ 298,118,746 total 37,206,365 $ 45.74 37,206,365 cash flows 2017 versus 2016 operating activities . net cash provided by operating activities was $1,310 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, compared to $1,296 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. this increase was driven primarily by the adjusted ebitda performance discussed above and the $36 million cash contribution to the nielsen foundation during the year ended december 31, 2016, partially offset by higher tax payments, and higher interest payments during the year ended december 31, 2017 related to higher debt balances and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), stayed consistent for the year ended december 31, 2017, as compared to a 3 day decrease for the year ended december 31, 2016. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $1,236 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, compared to $642 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. the increase was primarily driven by increased acquisition payments and capital expenditures during the year ended december 31, 2017, as compared to 2016. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $215 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, compared to $248 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. the decrease in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to lower share repurchasing, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, partially offset by decreased net proceeds from the issuance and repayment of debt during the year ended december 31, 2017, higher dividend payments, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, and an increase in capital lease financing during the year ended december 31, 2017, as compared to the same period of 2016. cash flows 2016 versus 2015 operating activities . net cash provided by operating activities was $1,296 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, compared to $1,209 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. this increase was driven primarily by the adjusted ebitda performance discussed above and our focus on working capital management, partially offset by our $36 million cash contribution to the nielsen foundation during the year ended december 31, 2016 and higher interest payments during the year ended december 31, 2016 related to higher debt balances and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), decreased by 3 days for the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to a 1 day increase for the year ended december 31, 2015. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $642 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, compared to $581 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. the increase was primarily driven by increased acquisition payments and capital expenditures during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to 2015. 55 financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $248 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, compared to $492 million for the year ended december 31, 2015. the decrease in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to lower share repurchasing, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, and increased net proceeds from the issuance and repayment of debt during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period of 2015, partially offset by higher dividend payments, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, and an increase in capital lease financing during the year ended december 31, 2016, as compared to the same period of 2015 . capital expenditures investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $489 million, $433 million and $408 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. in addition, the company received $42 million of proceeds from the sale of certain property, plant and equipment and other assets during each of the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. commitments and contingencies outsourced services agreements in october 2017, we amended and restated in its entirety, our amended and restated master services agreement, dated as of october 1, 2007, with tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (jointly, tcs ) (as amended prior to the second amendment and restatement, the prior agreement ) by entering into a second amended and restated master services agreement (the agreement ), dated as of october 1, 2017 and effective as of january 1, 2017 (the effective date ), with tcs. the term of the agreement has been extended for an additional five years, so as to expire on december 31, 2025, with three one-year renewal options granted to us. we have committed to purchase services from tcs from the effective date through the remaining term of the agreement (the minimum commitment ) in the amount of $2.25 billion, including a commitment to purchase at least $320 million in services per year from 2017 through 2020, $186 million in services per year from 2021 through 2024, and $139.5 million in services in 2025 (in each of the foregoing cases, the annual commitment ). we met the minimum commitment in 2017. in connection with the entry into the agreement, the parties have agreed to terminate the separate global infrastructure services agreement between them as of the effective date and include the services provided thereunder in one or more statements of work ( sows ) arising under the agreement. tcs's charges under such sows will continue to be credited against the minimum commitment and the annual commitment. tcs globally provides us with professional services relating to information technology (including application development and maintenance), business process outsourcing, client service knowledge process outsourcing, management sciences, analytics, and financial planning. as we order specific services under the agreement, the parties will execute sows describing the specific scope of the services to be performed by tcs. the amount of the minimum commitment and the annual commitment may be reduced on the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the agreement or sows, as applicable. nielsen foundation, inc. in november 2015, we established the nielsen foundation, inc. (the foundation ) for charitable, educational, scientific, and literary purposes including the making of distributions to organizations that qualify as tax exempt organizations under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code. the assets and transactions of the foundation are not included in our consolidated financial statements. donations to the foundation are expensed when committed by us. in december 2015, our board of directors approved an unconditional donation of $36 million to the foundation, at which time it was recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. in march 2016, we paid the cash contribution to the foundation. other contractual obligations our other contractual obligations include capital lease obligations (including interest portion), facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal and interest on debt and pension fund obligations. 56 at december 31, 2017, the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax positions at december 31, 2017, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. therefore, $505 million in uncertain tax positions (which includes interest and penalties of $53 million) have been excluded from the contractual obligations table below. see note 13 income taxes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. payments due by period (in millions) total 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter capital lease obligations (a) $ 196 $ 58 $ 49 $ 35 $ 21 $ 13 $ 20 operating leases (b) 453 99 79 62 46 35 132 other contractual obligations (c) 2,490 589 472 440 206 201 582 long-term debt, including current portion (a) 8,274 28 1,400 818 1,078 2,326 2,624 interest (d) 1,495 355 315 298 253 157 117 pension fund obligations (e) 27 27 total $ 12,935 $ 1,156 $ 2,315 $ 1,653 $ 1,604 $ 2,732 $ 3,475 (a) our short-term and long-term debt obligations, including capital lease and other financing obligations, are described in note 10 long-term debt and other financing arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. (b) our operating lease obligations are described in note 15 commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. (c) other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreements, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. we generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. the amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. our remaining commitments as of december 31, 2017, under the outsourced services agreement with tcs have been included above based on the annual commitment minimum required payments. (d) interest payments consist of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt based on libor as of december 31, 2017. (e) our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $21 million, $21 million and $25 million during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. future minimum pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2018. see note 9 pensions and other post-retirement benefits to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations. guarantees and other contingent commitments at december 31, 2017, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements: sub-lease guarantees. we provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. to date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded. letters of credit. letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $13 million at december 31, 2017. legal proceedings and contingencies we are subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. while the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. however, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 57 off-balance sheet arrangements except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources. summary of recent accounting pronouncements revenue recognition in may 2014, the fasb issued an accounting standards update ( asu ), revenue from contracts with customers . the new revenue recognition standard provides a five step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. the new model will require revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services and shall be applied retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption if using the modified retrospective transition method. in addition, the new standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. this standard is effective for annual periods beginning after december 15, 2017. in 2014, we established a cross-functional implementation team consisting of representatives from across all of its business segments. management utilized a bottoms-up approach to analyze the impact of the standard on our contract portfolio by reviewing the current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard to our revenue contracts. in addition, management identified, and are in the process of implementing appropriate changes to our business processes, systems and controls to support the recognition and disclosure under the new standard. based on management's assessment, we believe the most significant impact the adoption of the new standard will have on our consolidated financial statements are the required financial statement disclosures. except for the required financial statement disclosures, we do not believe the adoption of the asu will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and will adopt the asu using the modified retrospective transition method. leases in february 2016, the fasb issued an asu, leases . the new standard amends the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases currently classified as operating leases and amends disclosure requirements associated with leasing arrangements. the new standard increases assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. the new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018. early adoption is permitted. the new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition, and provides for certain practical expedients. transition will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. w e are currently assessing the impact the adoption of this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements. financial instruments credit losses in june 2016, the fasb issued an asu, financial instruments credit losses (topic 326), measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. the standard significantly changes how entities will measure credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments that are not measured at fair value through net income. the standard will replace today's incurred loss approach with an expected loss model for instruments measured at amortized cost. for available-for-sale debt securities, entities will be required to record allowances rather than reduce the carrying amount, as they do today under the other-than-temporary impairment model. it also simplifies the accounting model for purchased credit-impaired debt securities and loans. the new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2019. early adoption is permitted for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018. we are currently assessing the impact the adoption of this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements. intangibles- goodwill and other in january 2017, the fasb issued an asu, intangibles goodwill and other to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill. the update requires only a single-step quantitative test to identify and measure impairment based on the excess of a reporting unit's carrying amount over its fair value. a qualitative assessment may still be completed first for an entity to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary. the update is effective for fiscal year 2021 and is to be adopted on a prospective basis. early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after january 1, 2017. we elected to early adopt this asu effective january 1, 2017. there was no impact on our consolidated financial statements . 58 other income gains and losses from the derecognition of nonfinancial assets in february 2017, the fasb issued an asu, other income gains and losses from the derecognition of nonfinancial assets , which clarifies the scope and application of asc 610-20 on the sale or transfer of nonfinancial assets and in substance nonfinancial assets to noncustomers, including partial sales. it requires the application of certain recognition and measurement principles in asc 606 when derecognizing nonfinancial assets and in substance nonfinancial assets, and the counterparty is not a customer. this asu is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after december 15, 2017. we are currently assessing the impact the adoption of this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements. retirement benefits: improving the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in march 2017, the fasb issued an asu, compensation retirement benefits: improving the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost , which will change the presentation of net periodic benefit cost related to employer sponsored defined benefit plans and other postretirement benefits. service cost will be included within the same income statement line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period, while other components of net periodic benefit pension cost will be presented separately outside of operating income. additionally, only service costs may be capitalized in assets. this asu is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after december 15, 2017. we are currently assessing the impact the adoption of this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements. compensation- stock compensation in may 2017, the fasb issued an asu, compensation- stock compensation (topic 718), scope of modification accounting , which amends the scope of modification accounting for share-based payment arrangements. the standard provides guidance on the types of changes to the terms or conditions of share-based payment awards to which an entity would be required to apply modification accounting under asc 718. specifically, an entity would not apply modification accounting if the fair value, vesting conditions, and classification of the awards are the same immediately before and after the modification. the new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after december 15, 2017 and interim periods within those years. early adoption is permitted. we do not expect the adoption of this asu to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. derivatives and hedging in august 2017, the fasb issued an asu derivatives and hedging- targeted improvements to accounting for hedging activities ( asu 2017-12 ). the amendments expand an entity's ability to apply hedge accounting for nonfinancial and financial risk components and allow for a simplified approach for fair value hedging of interest rate risk. asu 2017-12 eliminates the need to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness and generally requires the entire change in fair value of a hedging instrument to be presented in the same income statement line as the hedged item. additionally, the standard simplifies the hedge documentation and effectiveness assessment requirements under the previous guidance. the amendments of this asu are effective for reporting periods beginning after december 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. we elected to early adopt this asu during the third quarter of 2017. see footnote 7 fair value measurement, for the additional disclosures related to this asu. the adoption of this asu did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. it em 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. we actively monitor these exposures. historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. our objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. it is our policy not to trade in financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate globally and we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure. 59 for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, we recorded a net gain of zero and $1 million, respectively, associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments within foreign currency exchange transactions losses, net in our consolidated statements of operations. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, the notional amounts of outstanding foreign currency derivative financial instruments were $74 million and $77 million, respectively . the table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2015: u.s. dollars euro other currencies year ended december 31, 2017 revenues 59 % 10 % 31 % operating costs 56 % 11 % 33 % year ended december 31, 2016 revenues 61 % 9 % 30 % operating costs 57 % 10 % 33 % based on the year ended december 31, 2017, a one cent change in the u.s. dollar/euro exchange rate would have impacted revenues by approximately $6 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income. interest rate risk we continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerations in the u.s. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. at december 31, 2017, we had $4,074 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities, of which $2,050 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. a one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $20 million ($41 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). in august 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a four-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of october 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.60%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in july 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of october 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.66%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in april 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of july 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.63%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in march 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a five-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of july 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 2.00%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in february 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of july 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.73%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in june 2016, we entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of june 9, 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.86%. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. 60 in july 2015, we entered into a $150 million in notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in july 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.62%. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in april 2015, we entered into a $150 million in notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in april 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.40%. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in november 2014, we entered into a $250 million in notional amount of two-year forward interest swap agreement with a starting date in may 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rate of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.78%. this derivative instrument has been designated as interest rate cash flow hedge. derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. we do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transactions were executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties. 61risk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in countries with currencies other than the u.s. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates; revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.18 to 1.00, $1.13 to 1.00 and $1.11 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations. we evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. the constant currency presentation, which is a non-gaap financial measure, excludes the impact of year-over-year fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, 40 thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of our business performance and is consistent with how management evaluates the company's performance. we calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency financial results using the current period exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. this calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with gaap nor should such amounts be considered in isolation. operations in argentina we have operations in both the buy and watch segments in argentina and the functional currency for those operations is the argentine peso. in accordance with u.s. gaap, argentina's currency has been considered hyperinflationary since july 1, 2018, and, accordingly, local currency transactions have been denominated in u.s. dollars since july 1, 2018, and will continue to be denominated in u.s. dollars until argentina's currency is no longer deemed to be hyperinflationary. we will continue to assess the appropriate conversion rate based on events in argentina and our argentina operations. this event has had an immaterial impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. results of operations years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 the following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our consolidated statements of operations: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016 revenues $ 6,515 $ 6,572 $ 6,309 cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 2,805 2,765 2,607 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,958 1,873 1,864 depreciation and amortization 675 640 603 impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets 1,413 restructuring charges 139 80 105 operating income/(loss) (475 ) 1,214 1,130 interest income 8 4 4 interest expense (394 ) (374 ) (333 ) foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net (16 ) (10 ) (6 ) other income/(expense), net (5 ) (6 ) 21 income/(loss) before income taxes and equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates (882 ) 828 816 benefit/(provision) for income taxes 182 (388 ) (309 ) net income/(loss) (700 ) 440 507 net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 12 11 5 net income/(loss) attributable to nielsen shareholders $ (712 ) $ 429 $ 502 net income to adjusted ebitda reconciliation we define adjusted ebitda as net income or loss from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, share-based compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items considered outside the normal course of our operations specifically described below. restructuring charges : we exclude restructuring expenses, which primarily include employee severance, office consolidation and contract termination charges, from our adjusted ebitda to allow more accurate comparisons of the financial results to historical operations and forward-looking guidance. by excluding these expenses from our non-gaap measures, we are better able to evaluate our ability to utilize our existing assets and estimate the long-term value these assets will generate for us. furthermore, we believe that the adjustments of these items more closely correlate with the sustainability of our operating performance. impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets : we exclude the impact of charges related to the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets. given the significance of the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, we reported it separately in the consolidated statements of operations. we believe that the exclusion of these impairments, which are non-cash, allows for meaningful comparisons of operating results to peer companies. we believe that this increases period-to-period comparability and is useful to evaluate the performance of the total company. 41 share-based compensation expense : we exclude the impact of costs relating to share-based compensation. due to the subjective assumptions and a variety of award types, we believe that the exclusion of share-based compensation expense, which is typically non-cash, allows for more meaningful comparisons of our operating results to peer companies. share-based compensation expense can vary significantly based on the timing, size and nature of awards granted. other non-operating income/(expense), net : we exclude foreign currency exchange transaction gains and losses, primarily related to intercompany financing arrangements, as well as other non-operating income and expense items, such as gains and losses recorded on business combinations or dispositions, sales of investments, net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and early redemption payments made in connection with debt refinancing. we believe that the adjustments of these items more closely correlate with the sustainability of our operating performance. other items : to measure operating performance, we exclude certain expenses and gains that arise outside the ordinary course of our operations. such costs primarily include legal settlements, acquisition related expenses, business optimization costs and other transactional costs. we believe the exclusion of such amounts allows management and the users of the financial statements to better understand our financial results. adjusted ebitda is not a presentation made in accordance with gaap, and our use of the term adjusted ebitda may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. adjusted ebitda margin is adjusted ebitda for a particular period expressed as a percentage of revenues for that period. we use adjusted ebitda to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. in addition to adjusted ebitda being a significant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-gaap financial information is viewed with gaap financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. adjusted ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or loss, operating income/(loss), cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. adjusted ebitda has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. in addition, our definition of adjusted ebitda may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies and may, therefore, have limitations as a comparative analytical tool. the below table presents a reconciliation from net income/(loss) to adjusted ebitda for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 2016 net income/(loss) attributable to nielsen shareholders $ (712 ) $ 429 $ 502 interest expense, net 386 370 329 (benefit)/provision for income taxes (182 ) 388 309 depreciation and amortization 675 640 603 ebitda 167 1,827 1,743 other non-operating (income)/expense, net 33 27 (10 ) restructuring charges 139 80 105 impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets 1,413 - - share-based compensation expense 35 45 51 other items (a) 63 45 36 adjusted ebitda $ 1,850 $ 2,024 $ 1,925 (a) for the year ended december 31, 2018, other items primarily consist of business optimization costs, including strategic review costs, and transaction related costs. for the year ended december 31, 2017, other items primarily consist of transaction related costs and business optimization costs. for the year ended december 31, 2016, other items primarily consist of business optimization costs. 42 consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to the year ended december 31, 2017 revenues revenues decreased 0.9% to $6,515 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $6,572 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, or 0.7% on a constant currency basis. revenues within our buy segment decreased 4.1%, or 3.7% on a constant currency basis. revenues within our watch segment increased 2.3%, or 2.2% on a constant currency basis. refer to the business segment results section for further di cussion of our revenue performance. cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 1.4% on reported and constant currency basis to $2,805 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $2,765 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. costs within our buy segment increased 3.6% on a reported and constant currency basis, primarily due to the continued global investment in our services, including retailer investments. costs within our watch segment increased 0.4%, or 0.3% on a constant currency basis. cost of revenues increased primarily due to the impact of our investments and higher spending on product portfolio management initiatives, including our digital and marketing effectiveness product offerings, partially offset by productivity initiatives. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative expenses increased 4.5% to $1,958 for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $1,873 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, or 4.4% on a constant currency basis. costs within our buy segment decreased 1.0% on a reported and constant currency basis. selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to productivity initiatives. costs within our watch segment increased 11.4%, or 11.1% on a constant currency basis. selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to the impact of our investments. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $675 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 as compared to $640 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. this increase was primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization expense associated with higher capital expenditures. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $220 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $219 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets during 2018, we recorded an impairment of goodwill and other long-lived asset charge of $1,413 million, primarily related to a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $1,411 million. this charge was recorded primarily within our buy reporting unit . restructuring charges we recorded $139 million and $80 million in restructuring charges, primarily related to employee severance costs associated with our plans to reduce selling, general and administrative expenses and consolidate operations centers, as well as automation initiatives for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. operating income/(loss) operating loss for the year ended december 31, 2018 was $475 million compared to operating income of $1,214 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. operating loss within our buy segment decreased to $1,342 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from operating income of $319 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. operating income within our watch segment decreased to $1,010 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $1,034 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. corporate operating expenses increased to $143 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $139 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. 43 interest expense interest expense was $394 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to $374 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. this increase was primarily due to higher usd libor interest rates on our senior secured term loans without hedged positions. foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain cash, external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.18 to 1.00 and $1.13 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. we realized net losses of $16 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, resulting primarily from fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. we realized net losses of $10 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, resulting primarily from fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. other income/(expense), net other expense, net of $5 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 is primarily related to certain costs incurred in connection with the june 2018 debt refinancing discussed below under liquidity and capital resources , as well as the write-off of certain previously capitalized deferred financing fees in conjunction with the refinancing, partially offset by certain pension related amounts reclassified from operating expense as a result of our adoption of asu compensation retirement benefits: improving the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost. see summary of recent accounting pronouncements below for more information. other expense, net of $6 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 is primarily related to the finalization of working capital and other matters associated with dispositions, partially offset by certain pension related amounts reclassified from operating expense as a result of our adoption of asu compensation retirement benefits: improving the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost. see summary of recent accounting pronouncements below for more information. income/(loss) before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates loss was $882 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to income of $828 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 were 21% and 47%, respectively. our effective tax rate benefit of 21% for the year ended december 31, 2018 was significantly impacted by the tcja and an intercompany restructuring. those impacts are described further in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. it was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of goodwill impairment, tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, changes in estimates for uncertain tax positions, and increases in valuation allowances offset by the favorable impact of the tcja adjustments, certain financing activities, and intercompany restructuring. our effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2017 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of the tcja as well as tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities and releases of valuation allowances. at december 31, 2018 and 2017, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $572 million and $452 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 of $70 million and $53 million, respectively. 44 estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months certain tax examinations will close, which could result in a change in unrecognized tax benefits, along with related interest and penalties. furthermore, the amounts ultimately paid may differ from the amounts accrued. an estimate of any possible change cannot be made at this time. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. other factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to, losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized, and audits by taxing authorities . adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda decreased 8.6% to $1,850 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $2,024 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, or 7.9% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin decreased to 28.40% for the year ended december 31, 2018 from 30.80% for the year ended december 31, 2017. see results of operations years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 for the reconciliation of net income/(loss) to adjusted ebitda. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to the year ended december 31, 2016 revenues revenues increased 4.2% to $6,572 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $6,309 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, or an increase of 3.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.4% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our buy segment decreased 2.7%, or 3.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues within our watch segment increased 11.9%, or 11.7% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.2% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. refer to the business segment results section for further di cussion of our revenue performance. cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 6.1% to $2,765 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $2,607 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, or an increase of 5.7% on a constant currency basis. costs within our buy segment increased 0.7%, or 0.1% on a constant currency basis. cost of revenues increased primarily due to the continued global investment in our services. costs within our watch segment increased 11.2% on a reported and constant currency basis. cost of revenues increased primarily due to the impact of the gracenote acquisition. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative expenses increased 0.5% to $1,873 for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $1,864 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, or 0.4% on a constant currency basis. costs within our buy segment decreased 5.8%, or 5.9% on a constant currency basis. selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to productivity initiatives including dispositions as we continue to execute our portfolio pruning initiatives. costs within our watch segment increased 16.8%, or 16.6% on a constant currency basis. selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to the impact of the gracenote acquisition. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $640 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 as compared to $603 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. this increase was primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangible assets acquired as part of the gracenote acquisition on february 1, 2017. 45 depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $219 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $210 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. restructuring charges we recorded $80 million and $105 million in restructuring charges primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives and contract termination costs for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. operating income/(loss) operating income for the year ended december 31, 2017 was $1,214 million compared to operating income of $1,130 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. operating income within our buy segment decreased to $319 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $327 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. operating income within our watch segment increased to $1,034 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $931 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. corporate operating expenses increased to $139 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $128 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. interest expense interest expense was $374 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to $333 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. this increase is primarily related to higher average debt balances including the incurrence of an additional $500 million 5.00% senior notes in january 2017 and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates. foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain cash, external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.13 to 1.00 and $1.11 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. we realized net losses of $10 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, resulting primarily from fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. we realized net losses of $6 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, resulting primarily from fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions and the loss of $5 million from the revaluation of our u.s.-denominated debt and cash held in euro functional entities, partially offset by a gain of $1 million associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments. other income/(expense), net other expense, net of $6 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 is primarily related to the finalization of working capital and other matters associated with dispositions partially offset by certain pension related amounts reclassified from operating expense as a result of our adoption of asu compensation retirement benefits: improving the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost. see summary of recent accounting pronouncements below for more information. other income, net of $21 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 is primarily related to the gain of $14 million on the dispositions and certain pension related amounts reclassified from operating expense as a result of our adoption of asu compensation retirement benefits: improving the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost. see summary of recent accounting pronouncements below for more information, partially offset by the loss of $4 million related to certain costs incurred in connection with the b-3 term loan refinancing. income/(loss) before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates income was $828 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to $816 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. 46 income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 were 47% and 38%, respectively. our effective tax rate of 47% for the year ended december 31, 2017 was significantly impacted by the tcja. those impacts are described further in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. it was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of the tcja as well as tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities and releases of valuation allowances. the effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2016 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities, windfall tax benefits from stock option exercises and releases of uncertain tax positions. at december 31, 2017 and 2016, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $452 million and $432 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 of $53 million and $33 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 5.1% to $2,024 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $1,925 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, or 4.4% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 30.80% for the year ended december 31, 2017 from 30.51% for the year ended december 31, 2016. see results of operations years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 for the reconciliation of net income/(loss) to adjusted ebitda. business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to the year ended december 31, 2017 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to the year ended december 31, 2017, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2018 year ended december 31, 2017 % variance 2018 vs. 2017 reported year ended december 31, 2017 constant currency % variance 2018 vs. 2017 constant currency emerging markets $ 1,145 1,164 (1.6 )% 1,123 2.0 % developed markets 1,922 1,999 (3.9 )% 2,025 (5.1 )% core buy 3,067 3,163 (3.0 )% 3,148 (2.6 )% corporate 30 68 (55.9 )% 68 (55.9 )% buy segment $ 3,097 $ 3,231 (4.1 )% $ 3,216 (3.7 )% marketing effectiveness $ 337 350 (3.7 )% 351 (4.0 )% audio 497 501 (0.8 )% 500 (0.6 )% audience measurement (video and text) 2,446 $ 2,308 6.0 % $ 2,311 5.8 % core watch 3,280 3,159 3.8 % 3,162 3.7 % corporate/other watch 138 182 (24.2 )% 181 (23.8 )% watch segment 3,418 3,341 2.3 % 3,343 2.2 % total core (buy/watch) 6,347 6,322 0.4 % 6,310 0.6 % total $ 6,515 $ 6,572 (0.9 )% $ 6,559 (0.7 )% buy segment revenues revenues decreased 4.1% to $3,097 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $3,231 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, or 3.7% on a constant currency basis. 47 revenues from emerging markets decreased 1.6% to $1,145 million, or an increase of 2.0% on a constant currency basis. the increase on a constant currency basis was driven primarily due to our global footprint, coverage expansion and broad product offerings driving growth in eastern europe, africa and some markets in latin america, partially offset by pressure on multinational client spend and continued softness in china. revenues from developed markets decreased 3.9% to $1,922 million, or 5.1% on a constant currency basis, primarily due to continued pressure on spending from large multinational clients and continued pressure in the fast moving consumer goods industry in the u.s. revenues from corporate buy decreased 55.9% to $30 million on a reported and constant currency basis. corporate includes slow growth and non-core services that are part of portfolio pruning initiatives. watch segment revenues revenues increased 2.3% to $3,418 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $3,341 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 or an increase of 2.2% on a constant currency basis. revenue growth was primarily driven by growth in audience measurement of video and text, which increased 6.0%, or 5.8% on a constant currency basis, primarily due to continued client adoption of our total audience measurement system and our ongoing investments, including gracenote. audio revenues decreased 0.8% or 0.6% on a constant currency basis. marketing effectiveness revenue decreased 3.7%, or 4.0% on a constant currency basis, primarily driven by historical data sales related to a product category exit, partially offset by consistent investment in our product portfolio. corporate/other watch revenues decreased by 24.2%, or 23.8% on a constant currency basis due to our continued exit of non-core media analytics products. our core watch revenue grew 3.8%, or 3.7% on a constant currency basis. 48 business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision maker and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income/(loss), cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and have important limitations as analytical tools. accordingly, they should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2018 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets share-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ (1,342 ) $ 103 $ 226 $ 1,411 $ 13 $ $ 411 watch 1,010 22 442 11 1,485 corporate and eliminations (143 ) 14 7 2 11 63 (46 ) total nielsen $ (475 ) $ 139 $ 675 $ 1,413 $ 35 $ 63 $ 1,850 year ended december 31, 2017 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets share-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 319 $ 42 $ 210 $ $ 13 $ $ 584 watch 1,034 15 425 12 1,486 corporate and eliminations (139 ) 23 5 20 45 (46 ) total nielsen $ 1,214 $ 80 $ 640 $ $ 45 $ 45 $ 2,024 (1) for the year ended december 31, 2018, other items primarily consist of business optimization costs, including strategic review costs, and transaction related costs. for the year ended december 31, 2017, other items primarily consist of transaction related costs and business optimization costs. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2018 year ended december 31, 2017 % variance 2018 vs. 2017 reported year ended december 31, 2017 constant currency % variance 2018 vs. 2017 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 411 $ 584 (29.6 )% $ 569 (27.8 )% watch 1,485 1,486 (0.1 )% 1,485 (0.0 )% corporate and eliminations (46 ) (46 ) na (46 ) na total nielsen $ 1,850 $ 2,024 (8.6 )% $ 2,008 (7.9 )% buy segment profitability operating loss was $1,342 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 as compared to operating income of $319 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. the decrease was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, the buy goodwill impairment, higher restructuring costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense and our continued global investments in our services, including retailer investments. non-gaap business segment income decreased 27.8% on a constant currency basis. 49 watch segment profitability operating income was $1,010 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 as compared to $1,034 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. the decrease was driven by higher restructuring costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense and investments in our services, partially offset by the revenue performance discussed above. non-gaap business segment income was flat on a constant currency basis. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $143 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 as compared to $139 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, primarily due to an increase in transaction related costs and business optimization costs and depreciation and amortization expense partially offset by lower share-based compensation expense and lower restructuring charges. business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to the year ended december 31, 2016 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to the year ended december 31, 2016, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2017 year ended december 31, 2016 % variance 2017 vs. 2016 reported year ended december 31, 2016 constant currency % variance 2017 vs. 2016 constant currency emerging markets $ 1,164 1,063 9.5 % 1,070 8.8 % developed markets 1,999 2,096 (4.6 )% 2,108 (5.2 )% core buy 3,163 3,159 0.1 % 3,178 (0.5 )% corporate 68 163 (58.3 )% 163 (58.3 )% buy segment $ 3,231 $ 3,322 (2.7 )% $ 3,341 (3.3 )% marketing effectiveness $ 350 287 22.0 % 289 21.1 % audio 501 500 0.2 % 500 0.2 % audience measurement (video and text) 2,308 $ 1,978 16.7 % $ 1,984 16.3 % core watch 3,159 2,765 14.2 % 2,773 13.9 % corporate/other watch 182 222 (18.0 )% 218 (16.5 )% watch segment 3,341 2,987 11.9 % 2,991 11.7 % total core (buy/watch) 6,322 5,924 6.7 % 5,951 6.2 % total $ 6,572 $ 6,309 4.2 % $ 6,332 3.8 % buy segment revenues revenues decreased 2.7% to $3,231 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $3,322 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, or 3.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. revenues from emerging markets increased 9.5% to $1,164 million, or an increase of 8.8% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.7% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was driven by our global footprint, coverage expansion and broad product offerings which continue to position us well with both local and multinational clients. for the year ended december 31, 2017, these investments drove double-digit growth in latin america, india and eastern europe along with high single-digit growth in south east asia and africa. revenues from developed markets decreased 4.6% to $1,999 million, or 5.2% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, revenues decreased as a result of softness in the u.s. partially offset by growth in our european developed markets. revenues from corporate buy decreased 58.3% to $68 million on a reported and constant currency basis. corporate includes slow growth and non-core services that are part of portfolio pruning initiatives. 50 watch segment revenues revenues increased 11.9% to $3,341 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 from $2,987 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 or an increase of 11.7% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.2% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. excluding the gracenote acquisition, revenues increased 4.7% (4.5% on a constant currency basis). excluding a 0.2% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, revenue growth was primarily driven by growth in audience measurement of video and text, which increased 16.7% (16.3% on a constant currency basis). excluding the gracenote acquisition, audience measurement of video and text revenues increased 5.8% (5.5% on a constant currency basis), due to our ongoing investments and continued client adoption of our total audience measurement initiative. audio revenues increased 0.2% on a reported and constant currency basis. our marketing effectiveness revenue grew 22.0% (21.1% on a constant currency basis), due to the continued strength in audience-based solutions, including data deliveries, that help advertisers and publishers measure the return on investment in media spend and investments in our product portfolio. corporate/other watch revenues decreased by 18.0% (16.5% on a constant currency basis) due to our continued exit of non-core media analytics products. our core watch revenue grew 14.2% (13.9% on a constant currency basis). excluding the gracenote acquisition, our core watch revenue grew 6.5% (6.2% on a constant currency basis). business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision maker and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income/(loss), cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and have important limitations as analytical tools. accordingly, they should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2017 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization share-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 319 $ 42 $ 210 $ 13 $ $ 584 watch 1,034 15 425 12 1,486 corporate and eliminations (139 ) 23 5 20 45 (46 ) total nielsen $ 1,214 $ 80 $ 640 $ 45 $ 45 $ 2,024 year ended december 31, 2016 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization share-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 327 $ 61 $ 212 $ 16 $ 3 $ 619 watch 931 18 387 10 2 1,348 corporate and eliminations (128 ) 26 4 25 31 (42 ) total nielsen $ 1,130 $ 105 $ 603 $ 51 $ 36 $ 1,925 (1) for the year ended december 31, 2017, other items consist primarily of transaction related costs and business optimization costs. for the year ended december 31, 2016, other items consist primarily of business optimization costs. 51 (in millions) year ended december 31, 2017 year ended december 31, 2016 % variance 2017 vs. 2016 reported year ended december 31, 2016 constant currency % variance 2017 vs. 2016 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) buy $ 584 $ 619 (5.7 )% $ 629 (7.2 )% watch 1,486 1,348 10.2 % 1,351 10.0 % corporate and eliminations (46 ) (42 ) na (42 ) na total nielsen $ 2,024 $ 1,925 5.1 % $ 1,938 4.4 % buy segment profitability operating income was $319 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 as compared to $327 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. the decrease was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, partially offset by lower restructuring charges. non-gaap business segment income decreased 7.2% on a constant currency basis. watch segment profitability operating income was $1,034 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 as compared to $931 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. the increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense. non-gaap business segment income increased 10.0% on a constant currency basis. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $139 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 as compared to $128 million for the year ended december 31, 2016, primarily due to an increase in transaction related costs and business optimization costs partially offset by the decrease in restructuring charges and share-based compensation expense. liquidity and capital resources cash flows from operations provided a source of funds of $1,058 million, $1,310 million and $1,296 million during the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. this decrease in 2018 was driven primarily by the adjusted ebitda performance discussed above, higher interest payments during the year ended december 31, 2018 related to the full year impact of a 2017 bond issuance and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates, partially offset by lower tax payments. we provide for additional liquidity through several sources, including maintaining an adequate cash balance, access to global funding sources and a committed revolving credit facility. the following table provides a summary of the major sources of liquidity for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016: (in millions) 2018 2017 2016 net cash from operating activities $ 1,058 $ 1,310 $ 1,296 cash and short-term marketable securities $ 524 $ 656 $ 754 revolving credit facility $ 850 $ 575 $ 575 of the $524 million in cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2018, approximately $419 million was held in jurisdictions outside the u.s. we regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our u.s. indebtedness and related obligations. the below table illustrates our weighted average interest rate and cash paid for interest over the last three years. 2018 2017 2016 weighted average interest rate 4.67 % 4.32 % 4.04 % cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized (in millions) $ 380 $ 352 $ 319 52 our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. we believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. we expect the cash flow from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, dividend payments and capital spending over the next year. in addition, we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. long-term borrowings the following table provides a summary of our outstanding long-term borrowings as of december 31, 2018: (in millions) weighted interest rate carrying amount $1,125 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 4.14%) due 2023 $ 1,112 $2,303 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 4.39%) due 2023 2,285 545 million senior secured term loan (euro libor based variable rate of 2.50%) due 2023 623 $850 million senior secured revolving credit facility (euro libor or libor based variable rate) due 2023 - total senior secured credit facilities (with weighted average interest rate) 4.09 % $ 4,020 $800 million 4.50% senior debenture loan due 2020 797 $625 million 5.50% senior debenture loan due 2021 621 $2,300 million 5.00% senior debenture loan due 2022 2,290 $500 million 5.00% senior debenture loan due 2025 496 total debenture loans (with weighted average interest rate) 5.22 % $ 4,204 other loans 1 total long-term debt 4.67 % $ 8,225 capital lease and other financing obligations 161 bank overdrafts 1 total debt and other financing arrangements $ 8,387 less: current portion of long-term debt, capital lease and other financing obligations and other short-term borrowings 107 non-current portion of long-term debt and capital lease and other financing obligations $ 8,280 term loan facilities in june 2018, we entered into an amendment agreement to amend and restate our fourth amended and restated credit agreement (the prior credit agreement ) in the form of the fifth amended and restated credit agreement (the amended credit agreement ). among other things, the amendment agreement provided for: (i) the refinancing and replacement of the prior tranche a revolving credit facility with a new tranche a revolving credit facility having commitments in an aggregate principal amount of $850,000,000; (ii) the refinancing and replacement of the prior class a term loans with new class a term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $1,125,000,000; (iii) the refinancing and replacement of the prior class b-2 euro term loans with new class b-2 euro term loans in an aggregate principal amount of 545,245,518; and (iv) incurring incremental term loans in the form of class b-4 term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $75,000,000. the proceeds of loans under each replacement facility were used to replace or refinance the entire outstanding principal amount of loans under the prior facility that was replaced, and the proceeds of the incremental class b-4 term loans, together with a portion of the proceeds of the class b-2 euro term loans in excess of the amount of the prior class b-2 euro term loans that were replaced, were used to prepay the amount of prior class a term loans in excess of the amount of new class a term loans. 53 the new class a term loans will mature in full on july 9, 2023 and are required to be repaid in quarterly installments in an aggregate amount equal to 0.63% of the original principal amount of the class a term loans for each of the first eight quarters following the effective date of the amendment agreement, 1.25% of the original principal amount of the class a term loans for each of the subsequent eight quarters and 2.50% of the original principal amount of the class a term loans for each of the subsequent three quarters, with the balance payable on july 9, 2023. the new class b-2 euro term loans will mature in full on october 4, 2023 and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in an aggregate amount equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount of the class b-2 euro term loans, with the balance payable on october 4, 2023. the class b-4 term loans will mature in full on october 4, 2023 and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in an aggregate amount equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount of the class b-4 term loans, with the balance payable on october 4, 2023. the new tranche a revolving credit facility matures on july 9, 2023. the new class a term loans and loans under the new tranche a revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our election, (i) a base rate or eurocurrency rate, plus (ii) an applicable margin determined by reference to the total leverage ratio (as defined in the amended credit agreement), which varies from 0.25% to 1.00%, in the case of base rate loans, and from 1.25% to 2.00%, in the case of eurocurrency rate loans. the class b-2 euro term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (i) a eurocurrency rate plus (ii) an applicable margin equal to 2.50%. the class b-4 term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our election, (i) a base rate or eurocurrency rate, plus (ii) an applicable margin, which is equal to 2.00%, in the case of eurocurrency loans, or 1.00%, in the case of base rate loans. the amended credit agreement contains substantially the same affirmative and negative covenants as those of the prior credit agreement, except the exceptions to the restrictions on restricted payments and investments that are determined by reference to the total leverage ratio were amended to increase the applicable limits. obligations under the amended credit agreement are guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly-owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of tnc b.v. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the amended credit agreement. covenants the amended credit agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business they conduct. these entities are restricted, subject to certain exceptions, in their ability to transfer their net assets to us. such restricted net assets amounted to approximately $2.8 billion at december 31, 2018. in addition, these entities are subject to a total leverage covenant. the leverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of total net debt (as defined in the amended credit agreement) at the end of any calendar quarter to consolidated ebitda (as defined in the amended credit agreement) for the four quarters then ended to exceed a specified threshold. the maximum permitted ratio is 5.50 to 1.00. neither we nor tnc b.v. is currently bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the amended credit agreement. the amended credit agreement also contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. certain significant financial covenants are described further below. failure to comply with this financial covenant would result in an event of default under our amended credit agreement unless waived by certain of our term lenders and our revolving lenders. an event of default under our amended credit agreement can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facilities, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. as our failure to comply with the financial covenant described above can cause us to go into default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our amended credit agreement and this covenant are material to us. as of december 31, 2018, we were in full compliance with the financial covenant described above. pursuant to our amended credit agreement, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our amended credit agreement to the extent in any full calendar year we generate excess cash flow ( ecf ), as defined in the amended credit agreement. the percentage of ecf that must be applied as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda, as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. to the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ecf clause; such payment must generally occur 54 on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. at december 31, 2018, our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda was less than 5.00 to 1.00 and therefore no mandatory repayment was required. our next ecf measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2019 results, and although we do not expect to be required to issue any mandatory repayments in 2018 or beyond, it is uncertain at this time if any such payments will be required in future periods. revolving credit facility the amended credit agreement contains a senior secured revolving credit facility with aggregate revolving credit commitments of $850 million and a final maturity of july 2023 under which nielsen finance llc, tnc (us) holdings, inc., and nielsen holding and finance b.v. can borrow revolving loans. the revolving credit facility can also be used for letters of credit, guarantees and swingline loans. the senior secured revolving credit facility is provided under the amended credit agreement and so contains covenants and restrictions as noted above with respect to the amended credit agreement. obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by the same entities that guarantee obligations under the amended credit agreement. as of december 31, 2018, we had zero borrowings outstanding and outstanding letters of credit of $16 million. as of december 31, 2017, we had zero borrowings outstanding and outstanding letters of credit of $13 million. as of december 31, 2018, we had $834 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility. debenture loans the indentures governing certain of our debenture loans limit the majority of our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. upon a change in control, we are required to make an offer to redeem all of the senior notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. the senior notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by nielsen holdings plc, substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of nielsen holdings plc, and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of nielsen holdings plc. dividends and share repurchase program we remain committed to driving shareholder value as evidenced in 2013 with the adoption of a quarterly cash dividend policy by our board of directors, under which we have paid $494 million and $474 million in cash dividends during the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will be subject to the board of directors' continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders, and are in compliance with all laws and agreements to which we are subject. the below table summarizes the dividends declared on our common stock during 2017 and 2018. declaration date record date payment date dividend per share february 16, 2017 march 2, 2017 march 16, 2017 $ 0.31 april 24, 2017 june 2, 2017 june 16, 2017 $ 0.34 july 20, 2017 august 24, 2017 september 7, 2017 $ 0.34 october 19, 2017 november 21, 2017 december 5, 2017 $ 0.34 february 21, 2018 march 7, 2018 march 21, 2018 $ 0.34 april 19, 2018 june 6, 2018 june 20, 2018 $ 0.35 july 19, 2018 august 22, 2018 september 5, 2018 $ 0.35 october 19, 2018 november 21, 2018 december 5, 2018 $ 0.35 on february 21, 2019, the board declared a cash dividend of $0.35 per share on our common stock. the dividend is payable on march 21, 2019 to shareholders of record at the close of business on march 7, 2019. 55 our board of directors approved a share repurchase program, as included in the below table, for up to $2 billion of our outstanding common stock. the primary purposes of the program are to return value to shareholders and to mitigate dilution associated with our equity compensation plans. board approval share repurchase authorization ($ in millions) july 25, 2013 $ 500 october 23, 2014 1,000 december 11, 2015 500 total share repurchase authorization $ 2,000 repurchases under these plans will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws from time to time in the open market or otherwise depending on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. this program has been executed within the limitations of the authority granted by our shareholders. as of december 31, 2018, there have been 39,426,521 shares of our common stock purchased at an average price of $44.95 per share (total consideration of approximately $1,772 million) under this program. the activity for the year ended december 31, 2018 consisted of open market share repurchases and is summarized in the following table: period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the publicly announced plans or programs as of december 31, 2017 37,206,365 $ 45.74 37,206,365 $ 298,118,746 2018 activity january 1- 31 $ 298,118,746 february 1- 28 187,048 $ 33.31 187,048 $ 291,887,826 march 1- 31 424,324 $ 33.04 424,324 $ 277,868,369 april 1-30 155,878 $ 32.24 155,878 $ 272,843,463 may 1-31 922,862 $ 30.79 922,862 $ 244,424,375 june 1-30 208,510 $ 30.85 208,510 $ 237,992,519 july 1-31 321,534 $ 31.26 321,534 $ 227,942,536 august 1-31 $ $ 227,942,536 september 1-30 $ $ 227,942,536 october 1-31 $ 227,942,536 november 1-30 $ $ 227,942,536 december 1-31 $ $ 227,942,536 total 39,426,521 $ 44.95 39,426,521 cash flows 2018 versus 2017 operating activities . net cash provided by operating activities was $1,058 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, compared to $1,310 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. this decrease was driven primarily by the adjusted ebitda performance discussed above, higher interest payments during the year ended december 31, 2018 related to the full year impact of a 2017 bond issuance and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates, partially offset by lower tax payments. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), stayed consistent for the year ended december 31, 2018 and 2017. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $506 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, compared to $1,236 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. the decrease was primarily driven by decreased acquisition payments, partially offset by an increase in capital expenditures during the year ended december 31, 2018, as compared to 2017. 56 financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $676 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, compared to $215 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. the increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to decreased net proceeds from the issuance and repayment of debt during the year ended december 31, 2018, higher dividend payments, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, and an increase in capital lease financing, partially offset by lower share repurchasing, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above during the year ended december 31, 2018, as compared to the same period of 2017. cash flows 2017 versus 2016 operating activities . net cash provided by operating activities was $1,310 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, compared to $1,296 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. this increase was driven primarily by the adjusted ebitda performance discussed above and the $36 million cash contribution to the nielsen foundation during the year ended december 31, 2016, partially offset by higher tax payments, and higher interest payments during the year ended december 31, 2017 related to higher debt balances and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), stayed consistent for the year ended december 31, 2017, as compared to a 3 day decrease for the year ended december 31, 2016. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $1,236 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, compared to $642 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. the increase was primarily driven by increased acquisition payments and capital expenditures during the year ended december 31, 2017, as compared to 2016. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $215 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, compared to $248 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. the decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to lower share repurchasing, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, partially offset by decreased net proceeds from the issuance and repayment of debt during the year ended december 31, 2017, higher dividend payments, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, and an increase in capital lease financing during the year ended december 31, 2017, as compared to the same period of 2016 . capital expenditures investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $520 million, $489 million and $433 million in 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. in addition, the company received $4 million, $42 million and $42 million of proceeds from the sale of certain property, plant and equipment and other assets during the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. commitments and contingencies outsourced services agreements in october 2017, we amended and restated in its entirety, our amended and restated master services agreement, dated as of october 1, 2007, with tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (jointly, tcs ) (as amended prior to the second amendment and restatement, the prior agreement ) by entering into a second amended and restated master services agreement (the agreement ), dated as of october 1, 2017 and effective as of january 1, 2017 (the effective date ), with tcs. the term of the agreement has been extended for an additional five years, so as to expire on december 31, 2025, with three one-year renewal options granted to us. we have committed to purchase services from tcs from the effective date through the remaining term of the agreement (the minimum commitment ) in the amount of $2.25 billion, including a commitment to purchase at least $320 million in services per year from 2017 through 2020, $186 million in services per year from 2021 through 2024, and $139.5 million in services in 2025 (in each of the foregoing cases, the annual commitment ). we met the minimum commitment in 2018. in connection with the entry into the agreement, the parties have agreed to terminate the separate global infrastructure services agreement between them as of the effective date and include the services provided thereunder in one or more statements of work ( sows ) arising under the agreement. tcs's charges under such sows will continue to be credited against the minimum commitment and the annual commitment. tcs globally provides us with professional services relating to information technology (including application development and maintenance), business process outsourcing, client service knowledge process outsourcing, management sciences, analytics, and financial planning. as we order specific services under the agreement, the parties will execute sows describing the specific scope of the services to be performed by tcs. the amount of the minimum commitment and the annual commitment may be reduced on the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the agreement or sows, as applicable. as of december 31, 2018, the remaining tcs commitment was approximately $1.6 billion. 57 nielsen foundation, inc . in november 2015, we established the nielsen foundation, inc. (the foundation ) for charitable, educational, scientific, and literary purposes including the making of distributions to organizations that qualify as tax exempt organizations under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code. the assets and transactions of the foundation are not included in our consolidated financial statements. donations to the foundation are expensed when committed by us. in december 2015, our board of directors approved an unconditional donation of $36 million to the foundation, at which time it was recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. in march 2016, we paid the cash contribution to the foundation. other contractual obligations our other contractual obligations include capital lease obligations (including interest portion), facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal and interest on debt and pension fund obligations. at december 31, 2018, the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax positions at december 31, 2018, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. therefore, $641 million in uncertain tax positions (which includes interest and penalties of $70 million) have been excluded from the contractual obligations table below. see note 14 income taxes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. payments due by period (in millions) total 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter capital lease obligations (a) $ 184 $ 58 $ 52 $ 35 $ 19 $ 13 $ 7 operating leases (b) 404 99 72 52 36 26 119 other contractual obligations (c) 2,093 579 490 373 202 191 258 long-term debt, including current portion (a) 8,225 45 855 703 2,401 3,724 497 interest (d) 1,465 364 366 331 237 130 37 pension fund obligations (e) 28 28 total $ 12,399 $ 1,173 $ 1,835 $ 1,494 $ 2,895 $ 4,084 $ 918 (a) our short-term and long-term debt obligations, including capital lease and other financing obligations, are described in note 11 long-term debt and other financing arrangements to our consolidated financial statements. (b) our operating lease obligations are described in note 16 commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. (c) other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreements, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. we generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. the amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. our remaining commitments as of december 31, 2018, under the outsourced services agreement with tcs have been included above based on the annual commitment minimum required payments. as of december 31, 2018, the remaining tcs commitment was approximately $1.6 billion. (d) interest payments consist of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt based on libor as of december 31, 2018. (e) our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $29 million, $21 million and $21 million during 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. future minimum pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2019. see note 10 pensions and other post-retirement benefits to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations. 58 guarantees and other contingent commitments at december 31, 2018, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements: sub-lease guarantees. we provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. to date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded. letters of credit. letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $16 million at december 31, 2018. legal proceedings and contingencies in august 2018, a putative shareholder class action lawsuit was filed in the southern district of new york, naming as defendants nielsen, former chief executive officer dwight mitchell barns, and former chief financial officer jamere jackson. another lawsuit, which alleges similar facts but also names other defendants, including former chief operating officer stephen hasker, was filed in the northern district of illinois in september 2018 and transferred to the southern district of new york in december 2018. these lawsuits assert violations of certain provisions of the exchange act, based on allegedly false and materially misleading statements relating to the outlook of our buy segment, our preparedness for changes in global data privacy laws and our reliance on third-party data. we expect that an amended or consolidated complaint relating to these cases will be filed after appointment of a lead plaintiff and intend to file a motion to dismiss the amended or consolidated complaint. in addition, in january 2019, a shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in new york supreme court against a number of our current and former officers and directors. the derivative lawsuit alleges that the named officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties to the company in connection with factual assertions substantially similar to those in the putative class action complaints. the derivative lawsuit further alleges that certain officers and directors engaged in trading our stock based on material, nonpublic information. we intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously. based on currently available information, we believe that we have meritorious defenses to these actions and that their resolution is not likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, or results of operations. we are also subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. while the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. however, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. off-balance sheet arrangements except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources. summary of recent accounting pronouncements revenue recognition in may 2014, the fasb issued an accounting standards update ( asu ), revenue from contracts with customers . the new revenue recognition standard provides a five step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. the new model requires revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services and is applied retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption if using the modified retrospective transition method. in addition, the new standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. we adopted this asu effective january 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. except for the required financial statement disclosures, included in note 3 revenue recognition to the consolidated financial statements, there was no impact to our consolidated financial statements. retirement benefits: improving the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in march 2017, the fasb issued an asu, compensation retirement benefits: improving the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost, which changes the presentation of net periodic benefit cost related to employer sponsored defined benefit plans and other postretirement benefits. service cost is included within the same income statement 59 line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period, while other components of net periodic benefit pension cost is presented separately outside of operating income/(loss). additionally, only service costs may be capitalized in assets. this asu was adopted effective january 1, 2018 and was applied retrospectively. as a result of the adoption of this asu, we reclassified $11 million and $13 million from selling, general and administrative expenses to other income/(expense), net in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. other income gains and losses from the derecognition of nonfinancial assets in february 2017, the fasb issued an asu, other income gains and losses from the derecognition of nonfinancial assets," which clarifies the scope and application of asc 610-20 on the sale or transfer of nonfinancial assets and in substance nonfinancial assets to noncustomers, including partial sales. it requires the application of certain recognition and measurement principles in asc 606 when derecognizing nonfinancial assets and in substance nonfinancial assets, and the counterparty is not a customer. we adopted this asu in the first quarter of 2018 and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements . compensation- stock compensation in may 2017, the fasb issued an asu, compensation- stock compensation (topic 718), scope of modification accounting, which amends the scope of modification accounting for share-based payment arrangements. the standard provides guidance on the types of changes to the terms or conditions of share-based payment awards to which an entity would be required to apply modification accounting under asc 718. specifically, an entity would not apply modification accounting if the fair value, vesting conditions, and classification of the awards are the same immediately before and after the modification. we adopted this asu in the first quarter of 2018 and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements . intra-entity transfers of assets on october 24, 2016, the fasb issued an asu, intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. the fasb issued the asu as part of its simplification initiative aimed at reducing complexity in accounting standards. this guidance requires that the tax effects of all intra-entity sales of assets other than inventory be recognized in the period in which the transaction occurs. we were subject to this standard effective in the first quarter of 2018. the guidance is applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. leases in february 2016, the fasb issued an asu, leases. the new standard amends the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases currently classified as operating leases and amends disclosure requirements associated with leasing arrangements. the new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018. we have elected to use the transition method approved by the fasb on july 30, 2018, which allows companies to apply the provisions of the new leasing standard as of january 1, 2019, without adjusting the comparative periods presented by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. in 2016, we established a cross-functional implementation team consisting of representatives from across all of its business segments. management utilized a bottom-up approach to analyze the impact of the standard on our leasing portfolio by reviewing the current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that would result from applying the requirements of the new standard. we have developed our accounting policy, including the practical expedients provided for in asu 2018-11, leases (topic 842) targeted improvements, and are in the process of implementing appropriate changes to our business processes, systems and controls to support the recognition and disclosure under the new standard. nielsen is implementing an enterprise-wide lease management system to support the ongoing accounting requirements, has finalized our process of accumulating all of the necessary information required for our lease portfolio under the new standard and is in the final stage of inputting the information into the lease management system. the company's ability to calculate its right of use asset and related liability is dependent on finalizing this process, which is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter 2019. while we continue to evaluate the effect of the standard on the company's consolidated financial statements, the company expects that the adoption of the asu will increase assets and liabilities with an estimated immaterial effect to nielsen's retained earnings and cash flows. 60 income taxes in february 2018, the fasb issued an asu, reclassification of certain tax effects from accumulated comprehensive income . the new standard will give companies the option to reclassify stranded tax effects caused by the tcja from aoci to retained earnings. the new standard will take effect for all companies for the fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. we are assessing the impact the adoption of this asu will have on our consolidated financial statements. it em 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. we actively monitor these exposures. historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. our objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. it is our policy not to trade in financial instruments. foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate globally and we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure. for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded a net loss of $2 million and zero, respectively, associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments within foreign currency exchange transactions losses, net in our consolidated statements of operations. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, the notional amounts of outstanding foreign currency derivative financial instruments were $76 million and $74 million, respectively. the table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017: u.s. dollars euro other currencies year ended december 31, 2018 revenues 57 % 11 % 32 % operating costs 57 % 11 % 32 % year ended december 31, 2017 revenues 59 % 10 % 31 % operating costs 56 % 11 % 33 % based on the year ended december 31, 2018, a one cent change in the u.s. dollar/euro exchange rate would have impacted revenues by approximately $6 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income/(loss). operations in argentina we have operations in both the buy and watch segments in argentina and the functional currency for those operations is the argentine peso. in accordance with u.s. gaap, argentina's currency has been considered hyperinflationary since july 1, 2018, and, accordingly, local currency transactions have been denominated in u.s. dollars since july 1, 2018, and will continue to be denominated in u.s. dollars until argentina's currency is no longer deemed to be hyperinflationary. we will continue to assess the appropriate conversion rate based on events in argentina and our argentina operations. this event has had an immaterial impact on our consolidated financial statements. interest rate risk we continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerations in the u.s. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. at december 31, 2018, we had $4,020 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities, of 61 which $2,050 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. a one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual inte rest expense by approximately $20 million ($ 40 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). in may 2018, the company entered into $250 million aggregate notional amount of a five-year interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of may 9, 2018. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 2.72%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in august 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a four-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of october 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.60%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in july 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of october 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.66%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in april 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of july 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.63%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in march 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a five-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of july 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 2.00%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in february 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of july 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.73%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in june 2016, we entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of june 9, 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.86%. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in july 2015, we entered into a $150 million in notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in july 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.62%. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in april 2015, we entered into a $150 million in notional amount of three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in april 2016. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of the interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.40%. this derivative instrument has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. we do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transactions were executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties. 62risk factors 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in countries with currencies other than the u.s. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.1 2 to 1.00, $1.18 to 1.00 and $1.13 to 1.00 for the yea rs ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations. we evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. the constant currency presentation, which is a non-gaap financial measure, excludes the impact of year-over-year fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of our business performance and is consistent with how management evaluates the company's performance. we calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency financial results using the current period exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. this calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with gaap nor should such amounts be considered in isolation. operations in argentina we have operations in both the connect and media segments in argentina and the functional currency for those operations is the argentine peso. in accordance with u.s. gaap, argentina's currency has been considered hyperinflationary since july 1, 2018, and, accordingly, local currency transactions have been denominated in u.s. dollars since july 1, 2018, and will continue to be denominated in u.s. dollars until argentina's currency is no longer deemed to be hyperinflationary. we will continue to assess the appropriate conversion rate based on events in argentina and our argentina operations. this event has had an immaterial impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. results of operations years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 the following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our consolidated statements of operations: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017 revenues $ 6,498 $ 6,515 $ 6,572 cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 2,822 2,805 2,765 selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,929 1,958 1,873 depreciation and amortization 756 675 640 impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets 1,004 1,413 restructuring charges 80 139 80 operating income/(loss) (93 ) (475 ) 1,214 interest income 6 8 4 interest expense (397 ) (394 ) (374 ) foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net (10 ) (16 ) (10 ) other income/(expense), net (169 ) (5 ) (6 ) income/(loss) before income taxes and equity in net income/(loss) of affiliates (663 ) (882 ) 828 benefit/(provision) for income taxes 260 182 (388 ) net income/(loss) (403 ) (700 ) 440 net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 12 12 11 net income/(loss) attributable to nielsen shareholders $ (415 ) $ (712 ) $ 429 42 net income to adjusted ebitda reconciliation we define adjusted ebitda as net income or loss from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, share-based compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items considered outside the normal course of our operations specifically described below. restructuring charges : we exclude restructuring expenses, which primarily include employee severance, office consolidation and contract termination charges, from our adjusted ebitda to allow more accurate comparisons of the financial results to historical operations and forward-looking guidance. by excluding these expenses from our non-gaap measures, we are better able to evaluate our ability to utilize our existing assets and estimate the long-term value these assets will generate for us. furthermore, we believe that the adjustments of these items more closely correlate with the sustainability of our operating performance. impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets : we exclude the impact of charges related to the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets. given the significance of the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, we reported it separately in the consolidated statements of operations. we believe that the exclusion of these impairments, which are non-cash, allows for meaningful comparisons of operating results to peer companies. we believe that this increases period-to-period comparability and is useful to evaluate the performance of the total company. share-based compensation expense : we exclude the impact of costs relating to share-based compensation. due to the subjective assumptions and a variety of award types, we believe that the exclusion of share-based compensation expense, which is typically non-cash, allows for more meaningful comparisons of our operating results to peer companies. share-based compensation expense can vary significantly based on the timing, size and nature of awards granted. other non-operating income/(expense), net : we exclude foreign currency exchange transaction gains and losses, primarily related to intercompany financing arrangements, as well as other non-operating income and expense items, such as gains and losses recorded on business combinations or dispositions, sales of investments, pension settlements, net income/(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and early redemption payments made in connection with debt refinancing. we believe that the adjustments of these items more closely correlate with the sustainability of our operating performance. other items : to measure operating performance, we exclude certain expenses and gains that arise outside the ordinary course of our operations. such costs primarily include legal settlements, acquisition related expenses, business optimization costs and other transactional costs. we believe the exclusion of such amounts allows management and the users of the financial statements to better understand our financial results. adjusted ebitda is not a presentation made in accordance with gaap, and our use of the term adjusted ebitda may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. adjusted ebitda margin is adjusted ebitda for a particular period expressed as a percentage of revenues for that period. we use adjusted ebitda to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. in addition to adjusted ebitda being a significant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-gaap financial information is viewed with gaap financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. adjusted ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or loss, operating income/(loss), cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. adjusted ebitda has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. in addition, our definition of adjusted ebitda may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies and may, therefore, have limitations as a comparative analytical tool. 43 the below table presents a reconciliation from net income /(loss) to adjusted ebitda for t he years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 : year ended december 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 2017 net income/(loss) attributable to nielsen shareholders $ (415 ) $ (712 ) $ 429 interest expense, net 391 386 370 (benefit)/provision for income taxes (260 ) (182 ) 388 depreciation and amortization 756 675 640 ebitda 472 167 1,827 other non-operating (income)/expense, net (b) 191 33 27 restructuring charges 80 139 80 impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets 1,004 1,413 - share-based compensation expense 50 35 45 other items (a) 56 63 45 adjusted ebitda $ 1,853 $ 1,850 $ 2,024 (a) for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 other items primarily consists of business optimization costs, including strategic review costs and transaction related costs. for the year ended december 31, 2017, other items primarily consists of transaction related costs and business optimization costs. (b) for the year ended december 31, 2019, other non-operating (income)/expense, net, included non-cash expenses of $170 million for pension settlements which included plan transfers to third parties in the netherlands and uk, where we terminated our responsibility for future defined benefit obligations and transferred that responsibility to the third parties. see note 11 pensions and other post-retirement benefits for more information. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2019 compared to the year ended december 31, 2018 revenues revenues decreased 0.3% to $6,498 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 from $6,515 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, or an increase of 1.7% on a constant currency basis. revenues within our connect segment decreased 2.6%, or an increase of 0.7% on a constant currency basis. revenues within our media segment increased 1.9%, or an increase of 2.6% on a constant currency basis. refer to the business segment results section for further di cussion of our revenue performance. cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 0.6% to $2,822 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 from $2,805 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, or an increase of 2.6% on a constant currency basis. costs within our connect segment decreased 0.1%, or an increase of 2.9% on a constant currency basis, primarily due to global investments in our services, partially offset by our productivity initiatives. costs within our media segment increased 0.5%, or an increase of 1.3% on a constant currency basis, primarily due to the impact of our investments and higher spending on product portfolio management initiatives, partially offset by productivity initiatives. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1.5% to $1,929 for the year ended december 31, 2019 from $1,958 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, or an increase of 1.0% on a constant currency basis. costs within our connect segment decreased 7.0%, or a decrease of 3.8% on a constant currency basis primarily due to productivity initiatives. costs within our media segment increased 8.3%, or an increase of 9.7% on a constant currency basis. selling, general and administrative expenses increased on a constant currency basis primarily due to the impact of our investments. 44 depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $756 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 as compared to $675 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. this increase was primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization expense associated with capital expenditures, partially offset by lower depreciation and amortization expense associated with assets acquired in business combinations. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations decreased to $205 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 from $220 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets during 2019, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $1,004 million. this charge was recorded within our connect reporting unit. during 2018, we recorded an impairment of goodwill and other long-lived asset charge of $1,413 million, primarily related to a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $1,411 million. this charge was recorded primarily within our connect reporting unit . restructuring charges we recorded $80 million and $139 million in restructuring charges, primarily related to employee severance costs associated with our plans to reduce selling, general and administrative expenses and consolidate operations centers, as well as automation initiatives for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. operating income/(loss) operating loss for the year ended december 31, 2019 was $93 million compared to operating loss of $475 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. operating loss within our connect segment was $877 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 compared to operating loss of $1,329 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. operating income within our media segment decreased to $930 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 from $998 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. corporate operating expenses increased to $146 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 from $144 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. interest expense interest expense was $397 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 compared to $394 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. this increase was primarily due to slightly higher usd libor interest rates on our senior secured term loans without hedged positions and a higher euro denominated debt balance. foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain cash, external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.12 to 1.00 and $1.18 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. we realized net losses of $10 million and $16 million for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, resulting primarily from fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. other income/(expense), net other expense, net of $169 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 was primarily related to a non-cash expense of $170 million for pension settlements which included plan transfers to third parties in the netherlands and uk, where we terminated our responsibility for future defined benefit obligations and transferred that responsibility to the third parties. see note 11 pensions and other post-retirement benefits for more information. other expense, net of $5 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 was primarily related to certain costs incurred in connection with the september 2018 debt refinancing as well as the write-off of certain previously capitalized deferred financing fees in conjunction with the refinancing, partially offset by certain non-service related pension amounts. 45 income /(loss) before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates loss was $663 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 compared to a loss of $882 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 were 39% and 21%, respectively. our effective tax rate benefit of 39% for the year ended december 31, 2019 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of goodwill impairment, tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, post-retirement settlements, and withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes offset by the favorable impact of changes in estimates for uncertain tax positions and audit settlements, decreases in valuation allowances, the effect of global licensing activities, and certain financing activities. our effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2018 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of goodwill impairment, tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, changes in estimates for uncertain tax positions, and increases in valuation allowances offset by the favorable impact of the tcja adjustments, certain financing activities, and intercompany restructuring. at december 31, 2019 and 2018, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $164 million and $572 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 of $25 million and $70 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months certain tax examinations will close, which could result in a change in unrecognized tax benefits, along with related interest and penalties. furthermore, the amounts ultimately paid may differ from the amounts accrued. an estimate of any possible change cannot be made at this time. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. other factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to, losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized, and audits by taxing authorities . adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda increased 0.2% to $1,853 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 from $1,850 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, or an increase of 1.4% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin increased to 28.52% for the year ended december 31, 2019 from 28.40% for the year ended december 31, 2018. see results of operations years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 for the reconciliation of net income/(loss) to adjusted ebitda. consolidated results for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to the year ended december 31, 2017 revenues revenues decreased 0.9% to $6,515 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $6,572 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, or a decrease of 0.7% on a constant currency basis. revenues within our connect segment decreased 4.3%, or a decrease of 3.8% on a constant currency basis. revenues within our media segment increased 2.5%, or an increase of 2.4% on a constant currency basis. refer to the business segment results section for further di cussion of our revenue performance. cost of revenues, exclusive of depreciation and amortization cost of revenues increased 1.4% on reported and constant currency basis to $2,805 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $2,765 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. costs within our connect segment increased 3.5% on a reported and constant currency basis, primarily due to the continued global investment in our services, including retailer investments. 46 costs within our media segment increased 0.4%, or an increase of 0.2% on a constant currency basis. cost of revenues increased primarily due to the impact of our investments and higher spending on product portfolio management initiatives, including our digital and marketing effectiveness product offerings, partially offset by productivity initiatives. selling, general and administrative expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization selling, general and administrative expenses increased 4.5% to $1,958 for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $1,873 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, or an increase of 4.4% on a constant currency basis. costs within our connect segment decreased 0.9% on a reported and constant currency basis. selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to productivity initiatives. costs within our media segment increased 12.1%, or an increase of 10.9% on a constant currency basis. selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to the impact of our investments. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $675 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 as compared to $640 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. this increase was primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization expense associated with higher capital expenditures. depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $220 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $219 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets during 2018, we recorded an impairment of goodwill and other long-lived asset charge of $1,413 million, primarily related to a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $1,411 million in our connect reporting unit . restructuring charges we recorded $139 million and $80 million in restructuring charges, primarily related to employee severance costs associated with our plans to reduce selling, general and administrative expenses and consolidate operations centers, as well as automation initiatives for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. operating income/(loss) operating loss for the year ended december 31, 2018 was $475 million compared to operating income of $1,214 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. operating loss within our connect segment was $1,329 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to operating income of $336 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. operating income within our media segment decreased to $998 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $1,021 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. corporate operating expenses increased to $144 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $143 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. interest expense interest expense was $394 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to $374 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. this increase was primarily due to higher usd libor interest rates on our senior secured term loans without hedged positions. foreign currency exchange transaction gains/(losses), net foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain cash, external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, particularly the euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. the average u.s. dollar to euro exchange rate was $1.18 to 1.00 and $1.13 to 1.00 for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. we realized net losses of $16 million and $10 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, receptively, resulting primarily from fluctuations in certain foreign currencies associated with intercompany transactions. 47 other income/(expense), net other expense, net of $5 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 was primarily related to certain costs incurred in connection with the june 2018 debt refinancing discussed below under liquidity and capital resources , as well as the write-off of certain previously capitalized deferred financing fees in conjunction with the refinancing, partially offset by certain pension related amounts reclassified from operating expense as a result of our adoption of asu compensation retirement benefits: improving the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost. see summary of recent accounting pronouncements below for more information. other expense, net of $6 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 was primarily related to the finalization of working capital and other matters associated with dispositions, partially offset by certain pension related amounts reclassified from operating expense as a result of our adoption of asu compensation retirement benefits: improving the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost. see summary of recent accounting pronouncements below for more information. income/(loss) before income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates loss was $882 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to income of $828 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. income taxes the effective tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 were 21% and 47%, respectively. our effective tax rate benefit of 21% for the year ended december 31, 2018 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of goodwill impairment, tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, changes in estimates for uncertain tax positions, and increases in valuation allowances offset by the favorable impact of the tcja adjustments, certain financing activities, and intercompany restructuring. our effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2017 was higher than the uk statutory rate as a result of the impact of the tcja as well as tax rate differences in other jurisdictions where the company files tax returns, the effect of global licensing activities, withholding and foreign taxes as well as state and local income taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities and releases of valuation allowances. at december 31, 2018 and 2017, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $572 million and $452 million, respectively. we also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 of $70 million and $53 million, respectively. estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. it is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months certain tax examinations will close, which could result in a change in unrecognized tax benefits, along with related interest and penalties. furthermore, the amounts ultimately paid may differ from the amounts accrued. an estimate of any possible change cannot be made at this time. our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. other factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to, losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized, and audits by taxing authorities . adjusted ebitda adjusted ebitda decreased 8.6% to $1,850 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $2,024 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, or 7.9% on a constant currency basis. our adjusted ebitda margin decreased to 28.40% for the year ended december 31, 2018 from 30.80% for the year ended december 31, 2017. see results of operations years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 for the reconciliation of net income/(loss) to adjusted ebitda. 48 business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2019 compared to the year ended december 31, 2018 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2019 compared to the year ended december 31, 2018, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2019 year ended december 31, 2018 % variance 2019 vs. 2018 reported year ended december 31, 2018 constant currency % variance 2019 vs. 2018 constant currency measure $ 2,161 $ 2,211 (2.3 )% $ 2,131 1.4 % predict/activate 896 927 (3.3 )% 904 (0.9 )% connect segment $ 3,057 $ 3,138 (2.6 )% $ 3,035 0.7 % audience measurement $ 2,471 $ 2,411 2.5 % $ 2,399 3.0 % plan/optimize 970 966 0.4 % 955 1.6 % media segment 3,441 3,377 1.9 % 3,354 2.6 % total $ 6,498 $ 6,515 (0.3 )% $ 6,389 1.7 % connect segment revenues revenues decreased 2.6% to $3,057 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 from $3,138 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, or an increase of 0.7% on a constant currency basis. revenues from measure decreased 2.3% to $2,161 million, or an increase of 1.4% on a constant currency basis. revenue growth on a constant currency basis was driven by stronger performance in our retail measurement services and improved trends in emerging markets . revenues from predict/activate decreased 3.3% to $896 million, or a decrease of 0.9% on a constant currency basis. revenues decreased as a result of pressure in innovation and custom insights, partially offset by improvement in custom analytics. media segment revenues revenues increased 1.9% to $3,441 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 from $3,377 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, or an increase of 2.6% on a constant currency basis. revenue growth was primarily driven by growth in audience measurement, which increased 2.5%, or an increase of 3.0% on a constant currency basis, primarily due to continued client adoption of our total audience measurement system, partly offset by pressure in local television measurement. plan/optimize revenues increased 0.4%, or an increase of 1.6% on a constant currency basis, primarily driven by growth in gracenote and outcome-based solutions, partially offset by pressure in telecom. 49 business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assts, share-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision maker and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income/(loss), cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and have important limitations as analytical tools. accordingly, they should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2019 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets share-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) connect $ (877 ) $ 49 $ 231 $ 1,004 $ 15 $ $ 422 media 930 15 518 13 1,476 corporate and eliminations (146 ) 16 7 22 56 (45 ) total nielsen $ (93 ) $ 80 $ 756 $ 1,004 $ 50 $ 56 $ 1,853 year ended december 31, 2018 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets share-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) connect $ (1,329 ) $ 101 $ 223 $ 1,411 $ 14 $ $ 420 media 998 23 444 11 1,476 corporate and eliminations (144 ) 15 8 2 10 63 (46 ) total nielsen $ (475 ) $ 139 $ 675 $ 1,413 $ 35 $ 63 $ 1,850 (1) for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 other items primarily consists of business optimization costs, including strategic review costs and transaction related costs. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2019 year ended december 31, 2018 % variance 2019 vs. 2018 reported year ended december 31, 2018 constant currency % variance 2019 vs. 2018 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) connect $ 422 $ 420 0.5 % $ 402 5.0 % media 1,476 1,476 0.0 % 1,470 0.4 % corporate and eliminations (45 ) (46 ) na (45 ) na total nielsen $ 1,853 $ 1,850 0.2 % $ 1,827 1.4 % connect segment profitability operating loss was $877 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 as compared to operating loss of $1,329 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. the increase was primarily driven by lower goodwill impairment as compared to prior year and lower restructuring costs, partially offset by the revenue performance discussed above, higher depreciation and amortization expense and our continued global investments in our services, including retailer investments. non-gaap business segment income increased 5.0% on a constant currency basis. 50 media segment profitability operating income was $930 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 as compared to $998 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. the decrease was driven by higher depreciation and amortization expense and investments in our services, partially offset by the revenue performance discussed above and lower restructuring costs. non-gaap business segment income increased 0.4% on a constant currency basis. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $146 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 as compared to $144 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, primarily due to an increase in share-based compensation expense, partially offset by lower business optimization costs and transaction related costs, lower depreciation and amortization expense and lower restructuring charges. business segment results for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to the year ended december 31, 2017 revenues the table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared to the year ended december 31, 2017, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2018 year ended december 31, 2017 % variance 2018 vs. 2017 reported year ended december 31, 2017 constant currency % variance 2018 vs. 2017 constant currency measure $ 2,211 $ 2,233 (1.0 )% $ 2,221 (0.5 )% predict/activate 927 1,045 (11.3 )% 1,040 (10.9 )% connect segment $ 3,138 $ 3,278 (4.3 )% $ 3,261 (3.8 )% audience measurement $ 2,411 $ 2,321 3.9 % $ 2,323 3.8 % plan/optimize 966 973 (0.7 )% 975 (0.9 )% media segment 3,377 3,294 2.5 % 3,298 2.4 % total $ 6,515 $ 6,572 (0.9 )% $ 6,559 (0.7 )% connect segment revenues revenues decreased 4.3% to $3,138 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $3,278 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, or a decrease of 3.8% on a constant currency basis. revenues from measure decreased 1.0% to $2,211 million, or a decrease of 0.5% on a constant currency basis, primarily driven by pressure on spending from large multinational clients and competitive impacts in the u.s. revenues from predict/activate decreased 11.3% to $927 million, or a decrease of 10.9% on a constant currency basis. revenues decreased as a result of softness in areas such as innovation and custom analytics. media segment revenues revenues increased 2.5% to $3,377 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 from $3,294 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, or an increase of 2.4% on a constant currency basis. revenue growth was primarily driven by growth in audience measurement, which increased 3.9%, or an increase of 3.8% on a constant currency basis, primarily due to continued client adoption of our total audience measurement system, partly offset by pressure in local television measurement. plan/optimize revenues decreased 0.7%, or a decrease of 0.9% on a constant currency basis. revenues decreased as a result of pressure in telecom and a historical data sale related to an exited product category in the fourth quarter of 2017. these were partially offset by investments including gracenote and audience-based solutions that help advertisers and publishers measure the return on investment in media spend. 51 business segment profitability we do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, share-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-gaap business segment profitability. non-gaap business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. when this non-gaap financial information is viewed with our gaap financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. it is important to note that the non-gaap business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated adjusted ebitda described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision maker and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. these non-gaap measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss), operating income/(loss), cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with gaap as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. these non-gaap measures may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and have important limitations as analytical tools. accordingly, they should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under gaap. year ended december 31, 2018 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets share-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) connect $ (1,329 ) $ 101 $ 223 $ 1,411 $ 14 $ $ 420 media 998 23 444 11 1,476 corporate and eliminations (144 ) 15 8 2 10 63 (46 ) total nielsen $ (475 ) $ 139 $ 675 $ 1,413 $ 35 $ 63 $ 1,850 year ended december 31, 2017 (in millions) operating income/ (loss) restructuring charges depreciation and amortization impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets share-based compensation expense other items (1) non-gaap business segment income/(loss) connect $ 336 $ 43 $ 208 $ $ 13 $ $ 600 media 1,021 13 425 11 1,470 corporate and eliminations (143 ) 24 7 21 45 (46 ) total nielsen $ 1,214 $ 80 $ 640 $ $ 45 $ 45 $ 2,024 (1) for the year ended december 31, 2018, other items primarily consists of business optimization costs, including strategic review costs, and transaction related costs. for the year ended december 31, 2017, other items primarily consists of transaction related costs and business optimization costs. (in millions) year ended december 31, 2018 year ended december 31, 2017 % variance 2018 vs. 2017 reported year ended december 31, 2017 constant currency % variance 2018 vs. 2017 constant currency non-gaap business segment income/(loss) connect $ 420 $ 600 (30.0 )% $ 585 (28.2 )% media 1,476 1,470 0.4 % 1,469 0.5 % corporate and eliminations (46 ) (46 ) na (46 ) na total nielsen $ 1,850 $ 2,024 (8.6 )% $ 2,008 (7.9 )% connect segment profitability operating loss was $1,329 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 as compared to operating income of $336 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. the decrease was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, the goodwill impairment, higher restructuring costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense and our continued global investments in our services, including retailer investments. non-gaap business segment income decreased 28.2% on a constant currency basis. 52 media segment profitability operating income was $998 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 as compared to $1,021 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. the decrease was driven by higher restructuring costs, higher depreciation and amortization expense and investments in our services, partially offset by the revenue performance discussed above. non-gaap business segment income increased 0.5% on a constant currency basis. corporate expenses and eliminations operating expenses were $144 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 as compared to $143 million for the year ended december 31, 2017, primarily due to an increase in transaction related costs and business optimization costs and depreciation and amortization expense partially offset by lower share-based compensation expense and lower restructuring charges. liquidity and capital resources cash flows from operations provided a source of funds of $1,066 million, $1,058 million and $1,310 million during the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. this increase was driven primarily by lower employee annual incentive payments, lower retailer investments and lower restructuring payments, partially offset by working capital timing and higher interest and tax payments during the year ended december 31, 2019. we provide for additional liquidity through several sources, including maintaining an adequate cash balance, access to global funding sources and a committed revolving credit facility. the following table provides a summary of the major sources of liquidity for the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017: (in millions) 2019 2018 2017 net cash from operating activities $ 1,066 $ 1,058 $ 1,310 cash and short-term marketable securities $ 454 $ 524 $ 656 revolving credit facility $ 850 $ 850 $ 575 of the $454 million in cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2019, approximately $383 million was held in jurisdictions outside the u.s. we regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the u.s. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our u.s. indebtedness and related obligations. the below table illustrates our weighted average interest rate and cash paid for interest over the last three years. 2019 2018 2017 weighted average interest rate 4.40 % 4.67 % 4.32 % cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized (in millions) $ 386 $ 380 $ 352 our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. we believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. we expect the cash flow from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, dividend payments and capital spending over the next year. in addition, we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. 53 long-term borrowings the following table provides a summary of our outstanding long-term borrowings as of december 31, 2019: (in millions) weighted interest rate carrying amount $1,125 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 3.46%) due 2023 $ 1,086 $2,303 million senior secured term loan (libor based variable rate of 3.71%) due 2023 2,263 545 million senior secured term loan (euro libor based variable rate of 2.50%) due 2023 603 $850 million senior secured revolving credit facility (euro libor or libor based variable rate) due 2023 total senior secured credit facilities (with weighted average interest rate) 3.52 % $ 3,952 $800 million 4.50% senior debenture loan due 2020 799 $625 million 5.50% senior debenture loan due 2021 622 $2,300 million 5.00% senior debenture loan due 2022 2,293 $500 million 5.00% senior debenture loan due 2025 497 total debenture loans (with weighted average interest rate) 5.22 % $ 4,211 other loans 1 total long-term debt 4.40 % $ 8,164 finance lease and other financing obligations 145 bank overdrafts total debt and other financing arrangements $ 8,309 less: current portion of long-term debt, finance lease and other financing obligations and other short-term borrowings 914 non-current portion of long-term debt and finance lease and other financing obligations $ 7,395 our $ 800 million senior debenture loan matures in october 2020 and, as of december 31, 2019, there was approximately $ 808 million of outstanding principal and interest payable thereunder. we believe that it is probable that we will be able to refinance this debt prior to maturity. term loan facilities in june 2018, we entered into an amendment agreement to amend and restate our fourth amended and restated credit agreement (the prior credit agreement ) in the form of the fifth amended and restated credit agreement (the amended credit agreement ). among other things, the amendment agreement provided for: (i) the refinancing and replacement of the prior tranche a revolving credit facility with a new tranche a revolving credit facility having commitments in an aggregate principal amount of $850,000,000 (ii) the refinancing and replacement of the prior class a term loans with new class a term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $1,125,000,000 (iii) the refinancing and replacement of the prior class b-2 euro term loans with new class b-2 euro term loans in an aggregate principal amount of 545,245,518 and (iv) incurring incremental term loans in the form of class b-4 term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $75,000,000. the proceeds of loans under each replacement facility were used to replace or refinance the entire outstanding principal amount of loans under the prior facility that was replaced, and the proceeds of the incremental class b-4 term loans, together with a portion of the proceeds of the class b-2 euro term loans in excess of the amount of the prior class b-2 euro term loans that were replaced, were used to prepay the amount of prior class a term loans in excess of the amount of new class a term loans. 54 the new class a term loans will mature in full on july 9, 2023 and are required to be repaid in quarterly installments in an aggregate amount equal to 0.63% of the original principal amount of the class a term loans for each of the first eight quarters following the effective date of the amendment agreement, 1.25% of the original principal amount of the class a term loans for each of the subsequent eight quarters and 2.50% of the original principal amount of the class a term loans for each of the subsequent three quarters, with the balance payable on july 9, 2023. the new class b-2 euro term loans will mature in full on october 4, 2023 and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in an aggregate amount equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount of the class b-2 euro term loans, with the balance payable on october 4, 2023. the class b-4 term loans will mature in full on october 4, 2023 and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in an aggregate amount equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount of the class b-4 term loans, with the balance payable on october 4, 2023. the new tranche a revolving credit facility matures on july 9, 2023. the new class a term loans and loans under the new tranche a revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our election, (i) a base rate or eurocurrency rate, plus (ii) an applicable margin determined by reference to the total leverage ratio (as defined in the amended credit agreement), which varies from 0.25% to 1.00%, in the case of base rate loans, and from 1.25% to 2.00%, in the case of eurocurrency rate loans. the class b-2 euro term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (i) a eurocurrency rate plus (ii) an applicable margin equal to 2.50%. the class b-4 term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our election, (i) a base rate or eurocurrency rate, plus (ii) an applicable margin, which is equal to 2.00%, in the case of eurocurrency loans, or 1.00%, in the case of base rate loans. the amended credit agreement contains substantially the same affirmative and negative covenants as those of the prior credit agreement, except the exceptions to the restrictions on restricted payments and investments that are determined by reference to the total leverage ratio were amended to increase the applicable limits. obligations under the amended credit agreement are guaranteed by tnc b.v., substantially all of the wholly-owned u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-u.s. subsidiaries of tnc b.v. under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of tnc b.v. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the amended credit agreement. covenants the amended credit agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of nielsen holding and finance b.v. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business they conduct. these entities are restricted, subject to certain exceptions, in their ability to transfer their net assets to us. such restricted net assets amounted to approximately $2.1 billion at december 31, 2019. in addition, these entities are subject to a total leverage covenant. the leverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of total net debt (as defined in the amended credit agreement) at the end of any calendar quarter to consolidated ebitda (as defined in the amended credit agreement) for the four quarters then ended to exceed a specified threshold. the maximum permitted ratio is 5.50 to 1.00. neither we nor tnc b.v. is currently bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the amended credit agreement. the amended credit agreement also contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. certain significant financial covenants are described further below. failure to comply with this financial covenant would result in an event of default under our amended credit agreement unless waived by certain of our term lenders and our revolving lenders. an event of default under our amended credit agreement can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facilities, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. as our failure to comply with the financial covenant described above can cause us to go into default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our amended credit agreement and this covenant are material to us. as of december 31, 2019, we were in full compliance with the financial covenant described above. pursuant to our amended credit agreement, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our amended credit agreement to the extent in any full calendar year we generate excess cash flow ( ecf ), as defined in the amended credit agreement. the percentage of ecf that must be applied as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda, as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. to the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ecf clause such payment must generally occur on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. at december 31, 2019, our ratio of total net debt to covenant ebitda was less than 5.00 to 1.00 and therefore no mandatory repayment was required. our next ecf measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2020 results, and although we do not expect to be required to issue any mandatory repayments in 2020 or beyond, it is uncertain at this time if any such payments will be required in future periods. 55 revolving credit facility the amended credit agreement contains a senior secured revolving credit facility with aggregate revolving credit commitments of $850 million and a final maturity of july 2023 under which nielsen finance llc, tnc (us) holdings, inc., and nielsen holding and finance b.v. can borrow revolving loans. the revolving credit facility can also be used for letters of credit, guarantees and swingline loans. the senior secured revolving credit facility is provided under the amended credit agreement and so contains covenants and restrictions as noted above with respect to the amended credit agreement. obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by the same entities that guarantee obligations under the amended credit agreement. as of december 31, 2019, we had zero borrowings outstanding and outstanding letters of credit of $17 million. as of december 31, 2018, we had zero borrowings outstanding and outstanding letters of credit of $16 million. as of december 31, 2019, we had $833 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility. debenture loans the indentures governing certain of our debenture loans limit the majority of our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. upon a change in control, we are required to make an offer to redeem all of the senior notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. the senior notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by nielsen holdings plc, substantially all of the wholly owned u.s. subsidiaries of nielsen holdings plc, and certain of the non-u.s. wholly-owned subsidiaries of nielsen holdings plc. dividends and share repurchase program we continue to drive shareholder value through our quarterly cash dividend policy which was adopted by our board of directors ("board" in 2013. under this plan we have paid $395 million and $494 million in cash dividends during the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. on november 3, 2019, the board approved a plan to reduce the quarterly cash dividend, with the goal of strengthening our balance sheet and providing added flexibility to invest for growth. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board and will be subject to the board's continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders, and are in compliance with all laws and agreements to which we are subject. the below table summarizes the dividends declared on our common stock during 2018 and 2019. declaration date record date payment date dividend per share february 21, 2018 march 7, 2018 march 21, 2018 $ 0.34 april 19, 2018 june 6, 2018 june 20, 2018 $ 0.35 july 19, 2018 august 22, 2018 september 5, 2018 $ 0.35 october 18, 2018 november 21, 2018 december 5, 2018 $ 0.35 february 21, 2019 march 7, 2019 march 21, 2019 $ 0.35 april 18, 2019 june 5, 2019 june 19, 2019 $ 0.35 july 18, 2019 august 22, 2019 september 5, 2019 $ 0.35 november 3, 2019 november 21, 2019 december 5, 2019 $ 0.06 on february 20, 2020, our board declared a cash dividend of $0.06 per share on our common stock. the dividend is payable on march 19, 2020 to shareholders of record at the close of business on march 5, 2020. 56 our board approved a share repurchase program, as included in the below table, for up to $2 billion of our outstanding common stock. the primary purpose of the program is to return value to shareholders and to mitigate dilution associated with our equity compensation plans . board approval share repurchase authorization ($ in millions) july 25, 2013 $ 500 october 23, 2014 1,000 december 11, 2015 500 total share repurchase authorization $ 2,000 repurchases under these plans will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws from time to time in the open market or otherwise depending on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. this program has been executed within the limitations of the authority granted by our shareholders. as of december 31, 2019, there have been 39,426,521 shares of our common stock purchased at an average price of $44.95 per share (total consideration of approximately $1,772 million) under this program. there were no share repurchases for the year ended december 31, 2019. cash flows 2019 versus 2018 operating activities . net cash provided by operating activities was $1,066 million for the year ended december 31, 2019, compared to $1,058 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. this increase was driven primarily by lower employee annual incentive payments, lower retailer investments and lower restructuring payments, partially offset by working capital timing and higher interest and tax payments during the year ended december 31, 2019. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), decreased by 3 days as compared to the same period last year. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $582 million for the year ended december 31, 2019, compared to $506 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. the increase was primarily driven by increased acquisition payments, a decrease in proceeds received from the sale of subsidiaries and affiliates, and the purchase of an equity investment during the year ended december 31, 2019, as compared to 2018. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $544 million for the year ended december 31, 2019, compared to $676 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. the decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to lower dividend payments and share repurchasing, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, partially offset by an increase in net payments from the repayment and issuance of debt during the year ended december 31, 2019, as compared to the same period of 2018. cash flows 2018 versus 2017 operating activities . net cash provided by operating activities was $1,058 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, compared to $1,310 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. this decrease was driven primarily by the adjusted ebitda performance discussed above, higher interest payments during the year ended december 31, 2018 related to the full year impact of a 2017 bond issuance and higher usd libor senior secured term loan interest rates, partially offset by lower tax payments. our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (dbo), stayed consistent for the year ended december 31, 2018 and 2017. investing activities. net cash used in investing activities was $506 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, compared to $1,236 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. the decrease was primarily driven by decreased acquisition payments, partially offset by an increase in capital expenditures during the year ended december 31, 2018, as compared to 2017. financing activities . net cash used in financing activities was $676 million for the year ended december 31, 2018, compared to $215 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. the increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to decreased net proceeds from the issuance and repayment of debt during the year ended december 31, 2018, higher dividend payments, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above, and an increase in finance lease financing, partially offset by lower share repurchasing, as described in the dividends and share repurchase program section above during the year ended december 31, 2018, as compared to the same period of 2017. 57 capital expenditures investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $519 million, $520 million and $489 million in 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. in addition, the company received zero, $4 million and $42 million of proceeds from the sale of certain property, plant and equipment and other assets during the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. commitments and contingencies outsourced services agreements in july 2019, we amended our second amended and restated master services agreement (the msa ), dated as of october 1, 2017 and effective as of january 1, 2017 (the effective date ), with tata america international corporation and tata consultancy services limited (jointly, tcs ) by executing amendment number one (the amendment ) with tcs, dated as of july 1, 2019 and effective as of january 1, 2019 (the amendment effective date ). the amendment reduces the amount of services we have committed to purchase from tcs from the amendment effective date through the remaining term of the msa (the minimum commitment ) to $1.413 billion, including a commitment to purchase at least $275 million in services during 2019, at least $250 million in services during 2020, $184.3 million in services per year from 2021 through 2024, and $137.8 million in services in 2025 (in each of the foregoing cases, the annual commitment ). tcs's charges under existing and future statements of work ( sow ) pursuant to the msa will continue to be credited against the minimum commitment and the annual commitment and the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the agreement or sows, as applicable, will continue to be available to reduce the minimum and annual commitment amounts as they occur. the parties also agreed to certain other commercial terms. however, the other material terms of the msa as reflected in the msa and as previously disclosed remain unchanged . as of december 31, 2019, the remaining tcs commitment was approximately $1.1 billion. other contractual obligations our other contractual obligations include finance lease obligations (including interest portion), facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal and interest on debt and pension fund obligations. at december 31, 2019, the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax positions at december 31, 2019, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. therefore, $189 million in uncertain tax positions (which includes interest and penalties of $25 million) have been excluded from the contractual obligations table below. see note 15 income taxes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. payments due by period (in millions) total 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter finance lease obligations (a) $ 162 $ 61 $ 42 $ 29 $ 15 $ 7 $ 8 operating leases (b) 574 136 99 75 53 40 171 other contractual obligations (c) 1,639 627 295 203 190 185 139 long-term debt, including current portion (a) 8,164 854 702 2,399 3,710 499 interest (d) 1,038 354 315 216 115 25 13 pension fund obligations (e) 28 28 total $ 11,605 $ 2,060 $ 1,453 $ 2,922 $ 4,083 $ 257 $ 830 (a) our short-term and long-term debt obligations are described in note 12 long-term debt and other financing arrangements and our short-term and long-term finance lease obligations are described in note 5 leases , to our consolidated financial statements. (b) our operating lease obligations are described in note 17 commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. 58 (c) other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreements, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. we generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. the amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. our remaining com mitments as of december 31, 2019 , under the outsourced services agreement with tcs have been included above based on the annual commitment minimum required payments. as of december 31, 2019 , the remaining tcs c ommitment was approximately $1.1 billion. (d) interest payments consists of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt based on libor as of december 31, 2019. (e) our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $28 million, $29 million and $21 million during 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. future minimum pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2020. see note 11 pensions and other post-retirement benefits to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations. guarantees and other contingent commitments at december 31, 2019, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements: sub-lease guarantees. we provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. to date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded. letters of credit. letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $17 million at december 31, 2019. legal proceedings and contingencies in august 2018, a putative shareholder class action lawsuit was filed in the southern district of new york, naming as defendants nielsen, former chief executive officer dwight mitchell barns, and former chief financial officer jamere jackson. another lawsuit, which alleged similar facts but also named other nielsen officers, was filed in the northern district of illinois in september 2018 and transferred to the southern district of new york in december 2018. the actions were consolidated on april 22, 2019, and the public employees' retirement system of mississippi was appointed lead plaintiff for the putative class. the operative complaint was filed on september 27, 2019, and asserts violations of certain provisions of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, based on allegedly false and materially misleading statements relating to the outlook of our buy (now connect ) segment, our preparedness for changes in global data privacy laws and our reliance on third-party data. we moved to dismiss the operative complaint on november 26, 2019. briefing of our motion is scheduled to conclude on february 26, 2020. in addition, in january 2019, a shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in new york supreme court against a number of our current and former officers and directors. the derivative lawsuit alleges that the named officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties to us in connection with factual assertions substantially similar to those in the putative class action complaints. the derivative lawsuit further alleges that certain officers and directors engaged in trading our stock based on material, nonpublic information. by agreement dated june 26, 2019, the derivative lawsuit has been stayed pending resolution of our motion to dismiss the aforementioned securities litigation. we intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously. based on currently available information, we believe that we have meritorious defenses to these actions and that their resolution is not likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, or results of operations. we are subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. while the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. however, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. off-balance sheet arrangements except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources. 59 summary of recent accounting pronouncements leases effective january 1, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard using the transition method approved by the fasb on july 30, 2018, which allows companies to apply the provisions of the new leasing standard as of january 1, 2019, without adjusting the comparative periods presented. in addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard. this allowed us to carry forward the historical lease classification. adoption of this standard resulted in the recording of net operating lease right-of-use ( rou ) assets of $0.5 billion (amount is net of lease incentives and asc 420 cease-use liabilities) and corresponding operating lease liabilities of $0.6 billion . financial position for reporting periods beginning on or after january 1, 2019 are presented under the new guidance, while prior periods amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with previous guidance. see note 5 ( leases ) for further discussion . income taxes in february 2018, the fasb issued an asu, reclassification of certain tax effects from accumulated comprehensive income . the new standard gives companies the option to reclassify stranded tax effects caused by the tcja from accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) to retained earnings. the new standard became effective for us on january 1, 2019. we are electing to not reclassify stranded income tax effects of the tcja from aoci to retained earnings. financial instruments credit losses in june 2016, the fasb issued an asu, financial instruments credit losses (topic 326), measurement of credit losses on financial instruments . the standard significantly changes how entities will measure credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments that are not measured at fair value through net income. the standard will replace today's incurred loss approach with an expected loss model for instruments measured at amortized cost. for available-for-sale debt securities, entities will be required to record allowances rather than reduce the carrying amount, as they do today under the other-than-temporary impairment model. it also simplifies the accounting model for purchased credit-impaired debt securities and loans. the new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2019. we do not expect the adoption of this asu to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements . compensation-retirement benefits-defined benefit plans-general in august 2018, the fasb issued asu no. 2018-14, compensation retirement benefits defined benefit plans general (subtopic 715-20), which amends the current disclosure requirements regarding defined benefit pensions and other post retirement plans, and allows for the removal of certain disclosures, while adding certain new disclosure requirements. this standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2020 and allows for early adoption. we do not expect this new standard to have a significant impact to our disclosures. income taxes (topic 740): simplifying the accounting for income taxes in december 2019, the fasb issued asu no. 2019-12, income taxes (topic 740): simplifying the accounting for income taxes which amends and aims to simplify accounting disclosure requirements regarding a number of topics including: intraperiod tax allocation, accounting for deferred taxes when there are changes in consolidation of certain investments, tax basis step up in an acquisition and the application of effective rate changes during interim periods, amongst other improvements. this standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2020 and allows for early adoption. we are assessing the impact of this new standard on our consolidated balance sheets, statements of operations and our future disclosures. it em 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. we are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. we actively monitor these exposures. historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. our objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. it is our policy not to trade in financial instruments. 60 foreign currency exchange rate risk we operate globally and we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in local currencies. because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure. for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded a net gain of $1 million and a net loss of $2 million, respectively, associated with foreign currency derivative financial instruments within foreign currency exchange transactions gains/(losses), net in our consolidated statements of operations. as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, the notional amounts of outstanding foreign currency derivative financial instruments were $125 million and $76 million, respectively. the table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018: u.s. dollars euro other currencies year ended december 31, 2019 revenues 58 % 10 % 32 % operating costs 56 % 11 % 33 % year ended december 31, 2018 revenues 57 % 11 % 32 % operating costs 57 % 11 % 32 % based on the year ended december 31, 2019, a one cent change in the u.s. dollar/euro exchange rate would have impacted revenues by approximately $6 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income/(loss). operations in argentina we have operations in both the connect and media segments in argentina and the functional currency for those operations is the argentine peso. in accordance with u.s. gaap, argentina's currency has been considered hyperinflationary since july 1, 2018, and, accordingly, local currency transactions have been denominated in u.s. dollars since july 1, 2018, and will continue to be denominated in u.s. dollars until argentina's currency is no longer deemed to be hyperinflationary. we will continue to assess the appropriate conversion rate based on events in argentina and our argentina operations. this event has had an immaterial impact on our consolidated financial statements. interest rate risk we continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerations in the u.s. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. at december 31, 2019, we had $3,952 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities, of which $2,050 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. a one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $19 million ($40 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). in may 2019, the company entered into a $150 million aggregate notional amount four-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of july 9, 2019. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate-debt at an average rate of 1.82%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in march 2019, the company entered into a $150 million aggregate notional amount four-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of april 9, 2019. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate-debt at an average rate of 2.26%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in march 2019, the company entered into a $250 million aggregate notional amount four-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of june 9, 2019. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate-debt at an average rate of 2.07%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. 61 in may 2018, the company entered into $250 million aggregate notional amount of a five-year interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of may 9, 2018. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 2.72%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in august 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a four-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of october 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.60%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in july 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of october 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.66%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in april 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of july 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.63%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in march 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a five-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of july 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 2.00%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. in february 2017, the company entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of a three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date of july 10, 2017. this agreement fixes the libor-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the company's variable-rate debt at an average rate of 1.73%. this derivative has been designated as an interest rate cash flow hedge. derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. we do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transactions were executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties. 62