quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information about market risk can be found in item 7 of this form 10-k under the caption market risk.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information about market risk can be found in item 7 of this report under the caption market risk.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information about market risk can be found in item 7 of this report under the caption market risk.risk factors 12 risk factors and may also be described from time to time in our future reports filed with the sec. you should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. item 1. business overview united parcel service, inc. ( ups ) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in seattle, washington. today, ups is the world's largest package delivery company, a leader in the u.s. less-than-truckload industry and the premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. we deliver packages each business day for 1.1 million shipping customers to 7.7 million consignees in over 220 countries and territories. in 2012 , we delivered an average of 16.3 million pieces per day worldwide, or a total of 4.1 billion packages. total revenue in 2012 was $ 54.1 billion . we are a global leader in logistics, and we create value for our customers through solutions that lower costs, improve service and provide highly customizable supply chain control and visibility. customers are attracted to our broad set of services that are delivered as promised through our integrated ground, air and ocean global network. our services and integrated network allow shippers to simplify their supply chains by using fewer carriers, and to adapt their transportation requirements and expenditures as their businesses evolve. across our service portfolio, we also provide control and visibility of customers' inventories and supply chains via our ups technology platform. the information flow from ups technology drives improvements for our customers, as well as for ups, in reliability, flexibility, productivity and efficiency. particularly over the last decade, ups has significantly expanded the scope of our capabilities to include more than package delivery. our logistics and distribution capabilities give companies the power to easily expand their businesses to new markets around the world. by leveraging our international infrastructure, ups enables our customers to bridge time zones, cultures, distances and languages to keep the entire supply chain moving smoothly. we serve the global market for logistics services, which include transportation, distribution, forwarding, ground, ocean and air freight, brokerage and financing. our technology seamlessly binds our service portfolio. we have three reportable segments: u.s. domestic package, international package and supply chain &amp; freight, all of which are described below. for financial information concerning our reportable segments and geographic regions, refer to note 11 of our consolidated financial statements. 1 table of contents business strategy customers leverage our broad array of services; balanced global presence in north america, europe, asia and latin america; reliability; industry-leading technology; and solutions expertise for competitive advantage in markets where they choose to compete. we prudently invest to expand our integrated global network and our service portfolio. technology investments create user-friendly shipping, e-commerce, logistics management and visibility tools for our customers, while supporting ups's ongoing efforts to increase operational efficiencies. our service portfolio and investments are rewarded with among the best returns on invested capital and operating margins in the industry. we have a long history of sound financial management. our balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. as of december 31, 2012 , we had a balance of cash and marketable securities of approximately $ 7.924 billion and shareowners' equity of $ 4.733 billion . our moody's and standard &amp; poor's short-term credit ratings are p-1 and a-1, respectively, and our moody's and standard &amp; poor's long-term credit ratings are aa3 and a+, respectively. we have a negative outlook from standard &amp; poor's and a stable outlook from moody's. cash generation is a significant strength of ups. this gives us strong capacity to service our obligations and allows for distributions to shareowners, reinvestment in our businesses and the pursuit of growth opportunities. we enable and are the beneficiaries of the following trends: expansion of global trade transcontinental and trade across borders is predicted to grow at rates that are in excess of the growth rates of u.s. and global domestic production for the foreseeable future. as a result, u.s. and international economies are becoming more inter-connected and dependent on foreign trade. ups plays an important role in global trade and is uniquely positioned to take advantage of trade growth, wherever it occurs. our balanced global presence and productivity enhancing technologies allow customers to easily expand to new markets. we advocate the expansion of free trade, including the passage of regional trade pacts and the removal of trade barriers. free trade is a catalyst for job creation, economic growth and improved living standards; additionally, it propels our growth. emerging market growth as our current and prospective customers look to emerging markets for expansion, we make long-term, measured investments in markets where our customers choose to grow. our investments are scaled to the local opportunity. we typically follow a pattern of entering a market through the introduction of import and export services, expanding domestically with a partner or alliance, and then ultimately acquiring domestic operations where we see value and return. china is a prime example of this strategy as we continue to clear hurdles that will enable us to realize this vision. our two key air hubs in shanghai and shenzhen support market expansion through increased cargo capacity and faster intra-asia transit times, while enabling our customers to ship later in the day. linkage between asia and europe is provided via flights between hong kong and our recently expanded air hub in cologne, germany. taken together, these two trends (expanding global trade and emerging market growth) underscore why our international business is a catalyst for ups's growth. increasing need for segment expertise in the integrated carrier space we provide repeatable, scalable sector solutions for our customers. we invest in global capabilities and create value propositions for certain industries where there is a fit between our customers' needs and our offerings. segments where we bring unique value propositions include health care, high-tech, automotive &amp; industrial manufacturing, retail, government and professional, and consumer services. the health care industry faces complex challenges, including the continuing expiration of drug patents and the shifting landscape of regulatory requirements and drug pricing controls that differ by country. to counter these threats, many pharmaceutical companies have embarked on global expansion strategies that require infrastructure. ups has aligned our resources to serve these needs through a well-developed supply chain management capability that is designed to satisfy regulatory and compliance requirements. over the past 18 months, we opened 12 new dedicated health care facilities on four continents. we also expanded our health care network in china, india, australia and brazil and are in the process of expanding five existing north american facilities. in total, we currently operate nearly 6 million square feet of dedicated health care distribution space across an integrated network of 37 facilities. these facilities allow us to provide reliable, secure, cost-effective warehousing and distribution for pharmaceutical firms' supply chains, which, in turn, allow them to easily navigate across and within borders. 2 table of contents we also continue to invest in health care focused transportation solutions, such as ups temperature true. ups temperature true is an air freight solution specifically designed to safeguard temperature-sensitive shipments using a portfolio of specialized containers with passive, semi-active, or active refrigeration. this service provides door-to-door transportation of sensitive products in accordance with precise, measurable operating procedures. in 2012, ups added 400 new ups temperature true international trade lanes. we also launched ups temperature true small package to provide optimized packaging solutions to ensure product integrity for customers with smaller format shipments of environmentally-sensitive products. we will continue to expand our sector offerings, growing not only our physical and market footprint, but also our expertise and technology to support industry-specific needs. our growth strategy is to increase the number of customers benefiting from these sector solutions and gain their associated small package and freight transportation. outsourcing outsourcing supply chain management is becoming more prevalent, as customers increasingly view professional management and operation of their supply chains as a strategic advantage. this trend enables companies to focus on what they do best. we can meet our customers' needs for outsourced logistics with our global capabilities in customized forwarding, transportation, warehousing, distribution, delivery and post-sales services. as we move deeper into customers' supply chains, we do so with a shared vision on how to best serve those who rely on our customers. we integrate our technology for efficiencies, visibility and control to ensure that we execute as promised. retail e-commerce growth throughout much of the world, e-commerce growth continues to outpace traditional lines of business. we continue to create new services, supported by ups technology, that complement the traditional ups premium home delivery service to address the needs of e-commerce shippers and receivers ( consignees ). our offerings span a broad spectrum from cost-sensitive solutions such as surepost, for shipments where economy takes precedence over speed, up to feature-rich solutions, such as our ups my choice service that provides consignees with revolutionary visibility and control of their inbound shipments. with ups my choice, consignees direct the timing and location of their deliveries before a delivery attempt is made. premium features include online delivery planners, detailed driver instructions, alternate delivery locations and a two-hour delivery window. delivery alerts come via the channel chosen by the consignee email, sms text, etc. we strive to give our customers that ship using ups my choice the best delivery experience in the industry delivery on the first attempt, where and when their customers want it. technology technology powers logistics. we bring industry-leading ups technology to our customers who, in turn, realize increased productivity, greater control of their supply chains and improved customer experience when they integrate with our technology. customers benefit through offerings such as: ups quantum view, which can speed up the revenue cycle (i.e. faster transit times, coupled with confirmation of delivery, allow shippers to collect accounts receivable more quickly), allow for inbound volume planning, manage third-party shipping costs, automatically notify customers of incoming shipments, and of course, track shipments and let the customer react if a specific shipment status changes. flex global view, which provides customs alerts, supplier key performance indicators and inventory monitoring. ups paperless invoice, which enables customers to submit a commercial invoice electronically when shipping internationally. this eliminates redundant data entry and errors, while reducing customs holds and paper waste. ups import control, which gives our customers the ability to initiate their import shipments, define billing terms and assign accounts to charge, and remove commercial invoices prior to delivery to a third-party. ups mobile apps, which allow our customers to track, ship and find ups locations from mobile devices, are among the top downloaded applications for businesses. ups my choice, which focuses on the consignee and transforms the residential delivery experience. receivers direct the timing and circumstances of their deliveries. this innovative service, which is unmatched in our industry, is powered by the complex integration of real-time route optimization and other technologies with our delivery network. we believe that ups my choice gives us a substantial lead over the competition. 3 table of contents technology, coupled with high-quality ups employees, forms the foundation of our reliability and allows us to take customer experience to a higher level. technology delivers value to our customers and returns to our shareholders. recent advancements that evidence further gains in ups's operational efficiency, flexibility, reliability and customer experience include: continuing to rollout telematics to our delivery and tractor-trailer fleet. telematics helps ups determine a truck's performance and condition by capturing data on more than 200 elements, including speed, rpm, oil pressure, seat belt use, number of times the truck is placed in reverse and idling time. together, improved data and driver coaching help reduce fuel consumption, emissions and maintenance costs, while improving driver safety. moreover, customers experience more consistent pickup times and more reliable deliveries, thereby enhancing their profitability and competitiveness. implementing our on road integrated optimization and navigation ( orion ) system, which employs advanced algorithms to determine the optimal route for each delivery while meeting service commitments. converting our package cars to keyless entry, where drivers will be able to remotely turn the engine off with a button that will unlock the bulkhead door at the same time. ramping up installations of our next generation small sort ( ngss ) technology, which reduces the amount of memorization required to sort a package, thereby improving productivity and quality. employees sort packages to bins tagged with flashing lights, rather than memorizing addresses, allowing us to dramatically reduce training time. reporting segments and products &amp; services as a global leader in logistics, ups offers a broad range of domestic and export delivery services; the facilitation of international trade; and the deployment of advanced technology to more efficiently manage the world of business. we seek to streamline our customers' shipment processing and integrate critical transportation information into their own business processes, helping them to create supply chain efficiencies, better serve their customers and improve their cash flows. global small package ups's global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, small packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. we provide domestic delivery services within 56 countries and export services to more than 220 countries and territories around the world. we handle packages that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth as well as palletized shipments weighing greater than 150 pounds. all of our package services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies. ups handles all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through one global integrated pickup and delivery network. all packages are commingled throughout their journey in our network, except when necessary to meet their specific service commitments. this enables one ups driver to pick up our customers' shipments, for any of our services, at the same scheduled time, day after day. compared to companies with single service network designs, our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital efficiencies while being easier on the environment. upon request, we offer same-day pickup of air and ground packages. based on their needs, customers can schedule pickups for one to five days a week. additionally, we provide our customers with easy access to ups, with over 154,000 domestic and international entry points including: 39,100 drop boxes; 2,100 customer centers; 4,700 independently owned and operated locations of the ups store worldwide; 6,700 kiala locations; 12,400 authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters; 5,900 alliance locations; and 83,900 ups drivers who can accept packages provided to them. with the growth of online shopping, our customers' needs for efficient and reliable returns have increased. to this end, we have developed a robust selection of returns services that are available in over 100 countries. options vary based on customer needs and country, and range from cost-effective solutions such as ups returns, which simply enables shippers to provide their customers with a return shipping label, to services as specialized as ups returns exchange. with this new service, the ups driver simplifies product exchanges by delivering a replacement item and picking up a return item in the same stop, and assisting with the re-packaging process. we operate one of the largest airlines in the world, with global operations centered at our worldport hub in louisville, kentucky. worldport sort capacity, currently at 416,000 packages per hour, has expanded over the years due to volume growth and a centralization effort. our european air hub is located in cologne, germany, and we maintain asia-pacific air hubs in shanghai, china; shenzhen, china; taipei, taiwan; incheon, south korea; hong kong; and singapore. our regional air hub in canada is located in hamilton, ontario, and our regional air hub for latin america and the caribbean is in miami, florida. 4 table of contents in the u.s., worldport is supported by our regional air hubs in hartford, connecticut; ontario, california; philadelphia, pennsylvania; and rockford, illinois. this network design allows for cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facilities while enabling us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft. our u.s. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous u.s. u.s. domestic package reporting segment ups is a leader in time-definite, money-back guaranteed, small package delivery services. we offer a full spectrum of u.s. domestic guaranteed ground and air package transportation services. depending on the delivery speed needed, customers can select from a range of guaranteed time and day-definite delivery options. customers can select from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. many of these services offer options that enable customers to specify a time of day cut-off for their delivery (e.g. by 8:30, 10:30, noon, end of day, etc.). customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service that serves every u.s. business and residential address. ups delivers more ground packages than any other carrier, with over 11 million ground packages delivered on time every day in the u.s., most within one to three business days. ups also offers ups surepost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, light weight residential shipments. ups surepost is a contractual residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the ups ground network with final delivery provided by the u.s. postal service. international package reporting segment our international package reporting segment includes the small package operations in europe, asia, canada and latin america. ups offers a wide selection of guaranteed, day and time-definite international shipping services. we offer three guaranteed time-definite express options (express plus, express and express saver) to more locations than any other carrier. in 2013, we introduced ups worldwide express freight for palletized shipments over 150 pounds from 37 points of origin to 41 points of destination. this service meets the needs of international customers who have palletized freight shipments that require the same speed and reliability as our international express package service. ups worldwide express freight leverages our unique combination of package and freight networks to provide industry leading transit times with a money-back guarantee. for international shipments that do not require express services, ups worldwide expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option. for cross-border ground package delivery, we offer ups transborder standard delivery services within europe, between the u.s. and canada and between the u.s. and mexico. europe, our largest region outside of the u.s., accounts for roughly half of international revenue and is one of our growth engines. factors contributing to this are the highly fragmented nature of the market and the fact that exports make up a significant part of europe's gdp. given our well-known, trusted brand and distinctive integrated network, we believe there is continued strong potential for growth in small package exports in germany, the u.k., france, italy, spain and the netherlands. due to our strong growth, we are expanding our main european air hub in cologne by 70% to a capacity of 190,000 packages per hour. expansion will come in stages; the first stage was completed in the fourth quarter of 2011, with the final stage targeted for 2013. asia is another growth engine due to attractive growth rates in intra-asia trade and the dynamic chinese economy. we are bringing faster time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-asia trade, reducing transit days from asia to europe, and continuing to build our china presence. our recent china investments include: material outlays to add capabilities, facilities and quality employees. we are building awareness and relevance while demonstrating superior ups performance. opened an air hub in shenzhen in mid-2010. added intra-asia and around-the-world flight frequencies allowing customers to reach more of europe the next day, guaranteed, than any other express carrier. we serve more than 40 asia-pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances with local delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations. in vietnam, our volume has doubled since entering into an alliance with a local partner in 2010. 5 table of contents additional international highlights include the following: since our 2009 acquisition of unsped paket servisi san ve ticaret a.s. in turkey, we have seen strong export and domestic growth in that country. in south and central america, we benefit from the strong regional economy. our offerings include express package delivery in major cities as well as distribution and forwarding. we continue to grow our business organically in mexico. we are well positioned with freight, domestic, international and distribution services. in february 2012, we broadened our european business-to-consumer service portfolio by acquiring kiala s.a., a belgium-based developer of a platform that enables e-commerce retailers to offer consumers the option of having goods delivered to a convenient retail location. supply chain &amp; freight reporting segment the supply chain &amp; freight segment consists of our forwarding and logistics services, our ups freight business, and our financial offerings through ups capital. we manage supply chains in over 195 countries and territories, with approximately 35 million square feet of distribution space worldwide. supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with financial and information services. we meet this demand by offering a broad array of services, which are described below. the 2011 acquisition of italy-based pieffe group ( pieffe ) supports our global health care strategy, which has seen us make investments to better serve our growing customer base in the pharmaceutical, biotech and medical device industries. previously family-owned, pieffe is a pharmaceutical logistics business with more than 35 years of experience offering high-quality storage, distribution and cold chain solutions to some of the world's leading pharmaceutical brands. freight forwarding ups is one of the largest u.s. domestic air freight carriers and among the top international air freight forwarders globally. ups offers a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. additionally, as one of the world's leading non-vessel operating common carriers, ups also provides ocean freight full-container load and less-than container load shipments between most major ports around the world. customs brokerage ups is among the world's largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees worldwide. with decades of customs brokerage experience, we provide our customers with customs clearance, trade management and international trade consulting services. logistics and distribution ups logistics offers the following: distribution services: ups's comprehensive distribution services are provided through a global network of distribution centers that manage the flow of goods from receiving to storage and order processing to shipment, allowing companies to save time and money by minimizing their capital investment and positioning products closer to their customers. post sales: post sales services support goods after they have been delivered or installed in the field. the four core service offerings within post sales include: (1) critical parts fulfillment; (2) reverse logistics; (3) test, repair, and refurbish; and (4) network and parts planning. we leverage our global distribution network of 600+ field stocking locations to ensure that the right type and quantity of our customers' stock is in the right locations to meet the needs of their end-customers. with this service, our customers are able to minimize spend and maximize service. ups mail innovations: ups mail innovations offers an efficient, cost-effective method for sending lightweight parcels and flat mail to global addresses from the u.s. we pick up customers' domestic and international mail, sort, post, manifest and then expedite the secured mail containers to the destination postal service for last-mile delivery. 6 table of contents ups freight ups freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload ( ltl ) services, as well as full truckload services, in all 50 states, canada, puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands and mexico. ups freight provides reliable ltl service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. additionally, many user-friendly small package technology offerings are available for freight. applications such as ups worldship, billing center, and quantum view allow customers to process and track ltl shipments, create electronic bills of lading and reconcile billing. ups capital ups capital offers a range of services, including export and import financing to help improve cash flow, risk mitigation offerings to protect goods, as well as payment solutions that help speed the conversion cycle of payments. sustainability ups's business and corporate responsibility strategies pursue a common interest to increase the vitality and environmental sustainability of the global economy by aggregating the shipping activity of millions of businesses and individuals worldwide into a single, highly efficient logistics network. this provides benefits to: ups, by ensuring strong demand for our services. the economy, by making global supply chains more efficient and less expensive. the environment, by enabling our global customers to leverage ups's carbon efficiency and thereby reduce the carbon intensity of their supply chains. we pursue sustainable business practices worldwide through operational efficiency, fleet advances, facility engineering projects, and conservation-enabling technology and service offerings. we help our customers to do the same. we worked with the non-profit organization business for social responsibility ("bsr") to evaluate significant sustainability issues (economic, environmental and social), and ranked each issue by importance based on multiple stakeholder feedback. we then worked with bsr to develop a materiality matrix by mapping the issues on a grid with two axes: importance to stakeholder and influence on business success . the materiality matrix is now being used to aid in prioritizing our sustainability strategy. more information is available in the ups corporate sustainability report. sustainability highlights in 2012 include: rated 1 st in fortune magazine's 2012 world's most admired for the delivery industry. one of corporate responsibility's 100 best corporate citizens and one of the best corporate citizens in government contracting . recognized by ethisphere institute as one of the world's most ethical companies . named to interbrands best global brands for the 8th consecutive year. we ranked in the top 100 in brand value around the world (#27) and were the only company in the transportation sector to make the list in 2012 . recognized as a constituent of the dow jones sustainability index for the 11th consecutive year. one of america's top organizations for multicultural business opportunities by diversitybusiness.com. achieved a score of 99% in response to the carbon disclosure project. our carbon disclosure leadership index score tied one other company for the highest in the u.s. recognized by climatecounts.org as best company in the consumer shipping sector for the 4th consecutive year and was the second highest score overall globally. more information is available on the ups sustainability website. community we believe that strong communities are vital to the success of our company. by combining our philanthropy with the volunteer time and talents of our employees, ups helps drive positive change for organizations and communities in need across the globe. the highlights of our corporate citizenship efforts in 2012 include: local non-profits around the world received more than 1.8 million hours of volunteer service from ups employees participating in our neighbor-to-neighbor program. the ups foundation, our charitable organization, oversaw $98 million in donations of cash and in-kind services to global causes primarily in four focus areas community safety, environmental sustainability, diversity and volunteerism. 7 table of contents ups employees, both active and retired, contributed $48 million to united way last year which was matched by a corporate contribution of $7 million. during the 2012 campaign, employees (both active and retired) pledged an additional $51 million to united way. ups continued to help save lives through our ups humanitarian relief program by providing our logistics expertise and resources to aid the drought-stricken sahel region of africa and areas impacted by hurricanes isaac and sandy. thousands of teenagers and novice drivers in the u.s., canada, the u.k., and germany participated in ups road code. this safety program for new drivers features ups employees as instructors a role where they get to share driving knowledge and safety tips amassed over our 105-year history of safe driving. reputation great brands require connecting with customers. in working to develop these connections, we have once again received high accolades from independent brand evaluations. in 2012 , we were pleased that ups earned the top rating in our industry on interbrand's best global brands and millward brown's brandz most valuable global brands. ups also was named to industry-leading positions in fortune magazine's most admired and harris interactive's reputation quotient surveys. employees the strength of our company is our people, working together with a common purpose. we had approximately 399,000 employees (excluding temporary seasonal employees) as of december 31, 2012 , of which 323,000 are in the u.s. and 76,000 are located internationally. our global workforce includes approximately 71,000 management employees (36% of whom are part-time) and 328,000 hourly employees (46% of whom are part-time). as of december 31, 2012 , we had approximately 249,000 employees employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the international brotherhood of teamsters ( teamsters ). these agreements run through july 31, 2013 . we have approximately 2,600 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the independent pilots association ( ipa ), which became amendable at the end of 2011 . our airline mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with teamsters local 2727, which runs through november 1, 2013 . in addition, approximately 3,100 of our ground mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the international association of machinists and aerospace workers ( iam ). our agreement with the iam runs through july 31, 2014 . the experience of our management team continues to be an organizational strength. nearly 40% of our full-time managers have more than 20 years of service with ups. we believe that our relations with our employees are good. we periodically survey all our employees to determine their level of job satisfaction. areas of concern receive management attention as we strive to keep ups the employer-of-choice among our employees. we consistently receive numerous awards and wide recognition as an employer-of-choice, resulting in part from our emphasis on diversity and corporate citizenship. safety health and safety is a value at ups and an enduring belief that the wellbeing of our people, business partners, and the public is of utmost importance. we train our people to avoid injury to themselves and others in all aspects of their work. we do not tolerate unsafe work practices. we use an all-encompassing comprehensive health and safety process ("chsp") to prevent occupational illnesses, injuries, and auto crashes, as well as promote wellness through the development of workplace programs. the foundation of this process is our co-chaired employee and management health and safety committees. together they conduct facility and equipment audits, perform work practice and behavior analysis, conduct training, and recommend work process and equipment changes. 8 table of contents the components of chsp are: personal value - which is the foundation and forms the base of our safety and wellness culture. management commitment and employee involvement - where employees take an active role in their own safety as well as their fellow workers and are supported by management. work site analysis - which includes injury and auto crash data analysis, behavior observations, and facility and equipment audits to identify gaps and develop solutions. our operations managers are responsible for their employees' safety results. we investigate every injury and auto crash and develop prevention activities. hazard prevention and control - where solutions are developed and documented to ensure identified risks have been mitigated. safety education and training - employees who are healthy and well-trained in proper methods are more safe and efficient in performing their jobs. our approach starts with training the trainer. all trainers are certified to ensure that they have the skills and motivation to effectively train new employees. all new employees receive safety training during orientation and in the work area. in addition, each new driver receives extensive classroom and online training as well as on-road training, followed by three safety training rides integrated into his or her training cycle. other components to ensure the safety of our fleet include: recognition - we have a well-defined safe driving honor plan to recognize our drivers when they achieve accident-free milestones. we have more than 6,400 drivers enshrined in our coveted circle of honor for drivers who have driven 25 years or more without an avoidable auto crash. preventive maintenance - we have a comprehensive preventive maintenance program to ensure the safety of our fleet. our fleet is managed and monitored electronically to ensure that each vehicle is serviced at a specific time to prevent malfunction or breakdown. competition we are the largest package delivery company in the world, in terms of both revenue and volume. we offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and, therefore, compete with many different local, regional, national and international companies. our competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of participants in the supply chain, financial services and information technology industries. competitive strengths our competitive strengths include: integrated global network. we believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. we handle all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through a single pickup and delivery service network. our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. this unique, integrated global business model creates consistent and superior returns. we believe we have the most comprehensive integrated delivery and information services portfolio of any carrier in europe. in other regions of the world, we rely on both our own and local service providers' capabilities to meet our service commitments. global presence. ups serves more than 220 countries and territories around the world. we have a presence in all of the world's major economies. leading-edge technology. we are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers optimize their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency. technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. our technology offerings are initiated by our customers' needs. we offer a variety of online service options that enable our customers to integrate ups functionality into their own businesses not only to conveniently send, manage and track their shipments, but also to provide their customers with better information services. we provide the infrastructure for an internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated ups tools directly into their own web sites. 9 table of contents broad portfolio of services. our portfolio of services enables customers to choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many ups services in addition to package delivery. for example, our supply chain services such as freight forwarding, customs brokerage, order fulfillment, and returns management help improve the efficiency of the supply chain management process. customer relationships. we focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. we serve 1.1 million pick-up customers and 7.7 million delivery customers daily. cross-selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for ups. brand equity. we have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service, reliability and product innovation. the distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the professional courtesy of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity. distinctive culture. we believe that the dedication of our employees results in large part from our distinctive employee-owner concept. our employee stock ownership tradition dates from 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees. to facilitate employee stock ownership, we maintain several stock-based compensation programs. our long-standing policy of promotion from within complements our tradition of employee ownership, and this policy reduces the need for us to hire managers and executive officers from outside ups. the majority of our management team began their careers as full-time or part-time hourly ups employees, and have spent their entire careers with us. many of our executive officers have more than 30 years of service with ups and have accumulated a meaningful ownership stake in our company. therefore, our executive officers have a strong incentive to effectively manage ups, which benefits all our shareowners. financial strength. our balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. our financial strength gives us the resources to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and facilities; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; to service our obligations; and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends and share repurchases. government regulation air operations the u.s. department of transportation ( dot ), the federal aviation administration ( faa ), and the u.s. department of homeland security, through the transportation security administration ( tsa ), have regulatory authority over united parcel service co.'s ( ups airlines' ) air transportation services. the federal aviation act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for dot and faa authority and the aviation and transportation security act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for tsa aviation security authority. the dot's authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. the dot also regulates, subject to the authority of the president of the united states, international routes, fares, rates and practices, and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of u.s. air carriers abroad. international operating rights for u.s. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreement between the u.s. and foreign governments. ups airlines has international route operating rights granted by the dot and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. the efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on dot and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions. the faa's authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities, and personnel. in 1988, the faa granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable faa regulations. in addition, we are subject to non-u.s. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-u.s. jurisdictions, and non-u.s. customs regulation. faa regulations mandate an aircraft corrosion control program, along with aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals specified by approved programs and procedures, for all aircraft. our total expenditures under these programs for 2012 were not material. the future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional faa regulatory requirements. 10 table of contents the tsa regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the tsa mission statement to protect the nation's transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce. ups airlines, and specified airport and off-airport locations, are regulated under tsa regulations applicable to the transportation of cargo in an air network. in addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with tsa regulations. ups airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the civil reserve air fleet ( craf ) program. our participation in the craf program allows the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) to requisition specified ups airlines wide-body aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. the dod compensates us for the use of aircraft under the craf program. in addition, participation in craf entitles ups airlines to bid for military cargo charter operations. ground operations our ground transportation of packages in the u.s. is subject to the dot's jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of routes and to both the dot's and the states' jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of safety, insurance and hazardous materials. we are subject to similar regulation in many non-u.s. jurisdictions. the postal reorganization act of 1970 created the u.s. postal service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the postal rate commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. the postal accountability and enhancement act of 2006 amended the 1970 act to give the re-named postal regulatory commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the postal service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. we sometimes participate in the proceedings before the postal regulatory commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services. customs we are subject to the customs laws in the countries in which we operate, regarding the import and export of shipments, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters. environmental we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. these laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: proper storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous and other waste; managing wastewater and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases; and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. ups has established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. in addition, ups has created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations. other regulations we are subject to numerous other u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, in addition to applicable foreign laws, in connection with our package and non-package businesses in the countries in which we operate. these laws and regulations include those enforced by u.s. customs and border protection and other agencies of the u.s. department of homeland security, the u.s. department of treasury, the federal maritime commission, the u.s. drug enforcement administration, the u.s. food and drug administration and the u.s. department of agriculture. where you can find more information ups maintains a website at www.ups.com . our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available through our website www.investors.ups.com as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the sec. also available on the corporation's website are the company's corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. however, information on these websites is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the sec. 11 table of contents we have adopted a written code of business conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. it is available in the governance section of the investor relations website, located at www.investors.ups.com . in the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the code of business conduct that the sec requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our investor relations website. our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available in the governance section of the investor relations website. our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available at www.sustainability.ups.com . we provide the addresses to our internet sites solely for the information of investors. we do not intend any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this report. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. you should read these risk factors in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in item 8. general economic conditions, both in the u.s. and internationally, may adversely affect our results of operations. we conduct operations in over 220 countries and territories. our u.s. and international operations are subject to normal cycles affecting the economy in general, as well as the local economic environments in which we operate. the factors that create cyclical changes to the economy and to our business are beyond our control, and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model to mitigate the impact of these factors. in particular, our business is affected by levels of industrial production, consumer spending and retail activity, and our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by adverse developments in these aspects of the economy. we face significant competition which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we face significant competition on a local, regional, national and international basis. our competitors include the postal services of the u.s. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. competition may also come from other sources in the future. some of our competitors have cost and organizational structures that differ from ours and may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to competitive pressures, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. the transportation industry continues to consolidate and competition remains strong. as a result of consolidation, our competitors may increase their market share and improve their financial capacity, and may strengthen their competitive positions. business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance. changes in our relationships with our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have an adverse impact on us. our top 20 customers account for less than 10% of our consolidated revenue. we do not believe the loss of any single customer would materially impair our overall financial condition or results of operations; however, collectively, some of these large customers might account for a relatively significant portion of the growth in revenue in a particular quarter or year. these customers can drive the growth in revenue for particular services based on factors such as: new customer product launches; the seasonality associated with the fourth quarter holiday season; business mergers and acquisitions; and the overall fast growth of a customer's underlying business. these customers could choose to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, demand pricing concessions for our services, require us to provide enhanced services that increase our costs, or develop their own shipping and distribution capabilities. if these factors drove some of our large customers to cancel all or a portion of their business relationships with us, it could materially impact the growth in our business and the ability to meet our current and long-term financial forecasts. 12 table of contents our business is subject to complex and stringent regulation in the u.s. and internationally. we are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment and other governmental laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. in addition, our business is impacted by laws and regulations that affect global trade, including tariff and trade policies, export requirements, taxes and other restrictions and charges. changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. the impact of new laws and regulations cannot be predicted. compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations in the u.s. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. increased security requirements could impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an attack or have a security breach. as a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, governments around the world have adopted or may adopt stricter security requirements that will result in increased operating costs for businesses in the transportation industry. these requirements may change periodically as a result of regulatory and legislative requirements and in response to evolving threats. we cannot determine the effect that these new requirements will have on our cost structure or our operating results, and these rules or other future security requirements may increase our costs of operations and reduce operating efficiencies. regardless of our compliance with security requirements or the steps we take to secure our facilities or fleet, we could be the target of an attack or security breaches could occur, which could adversely affect our operations or our reputation. we may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such potential change. concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions. for example, in the past several years, the u.s. congress has considered various bills that would regulate ghg emissions. while these bills have not yet received sufficient congressional support for enactment, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. even in the absence of such legislation, the environmental protection agency, spurred by judicial interpretation of the clean air act, may regulate ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. these costs include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or vehicles prematurely. until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. it is reasonably possible that such legislation or regulation could impose material costs on us. moreover, even without such legislation or regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the ghgs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. a significant number of our employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the teamsters and our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide services. we may face permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. 13 table of contents we are exposed to the effects of changing prices of energy, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities. changing fuel and energy costs may have a significant impact on our operations. we require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. we mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our indexed fuel surcharges and we may also enter into hedging transactions from time to time. if we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could adversely impact our operating results. even if we are able to offset the cost of fuel with our surcharges, high fuel surcharges may result in a mix shift from our higher yielding air products to lower yielding ground products or an overall reduction in volume. if fuel prices rise sharply, even if we are successful in increasing our fuel surcharge, we could experience a lag time in implementing the surcharge, which could adversely affect our short-term operating results. there can be no assurance that our hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices. moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies, including our supply of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as a result of war, actions by producers, or other factors which are beyond our control, which could have an adverse effect on our business. changes in exchange rates or interest rates may have an adverse effect on our results. we conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the united states. our operations in international markets are affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. the impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting our debt is discussed in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk section of this report. we monitor and manage our exposures to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and make limited use of derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of changes in these rates on our financial position and results of operations; however, changes in exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. if we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the ups brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, environmental concerns, security matters, political activities and the like, or attempts to connect our company to these sorts of issues, either in the united states or other countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and acceptance of our services by customers. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. a significant privacy breach or it system disruption could adversely affect our business and we may be required to increase our spending on data and system security. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. in addition, the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our network involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. groups of hackers may also act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service attacks or other coordinated attacks that may cause service outages or other interruptions. in addition, breaches in security could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data. any of these occurrences could result in disruptions in our operations, the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, and litigation and potential liability for the company. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data or system protection measures could be significant. 14 table of contents severe weather or other natural or manmade disasters could adversely affect our business. severe weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters, including storms, floods, fires and earthquakes, may result in decreased revenues, as our customers reduce their shipments, or increased costs to operate our business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for a quarter or year. any such event affecting one of our major facilities could result in a significant interruption in or disruption of our business. we make significant capital investments in our business of which a significant portion is tied to projected volume levels. we require significant capital investments in our business consisting of aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sorting and other types of equipment to support both our existing business and anticipated growth. forecasting projected volume involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty, such as general economic trends, changes in governmental regulation and competition. if we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect our revenues and profitability. in addition to forecasting our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to adverse economic conditions; however, these adjustments may not be sufficient to allow us to maintain our operating margins in a weak economy. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in emerging markets. we have significant international operations and while the geographical diversity of our international operations helps ensure that we are not overly reliant on a single region or country, we are continually exposed to changing economic, political and social developments beyond our control. emerging markets are typically more volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to changes in markets and our business plans that have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. our regular review of the carrying value of our assets has resulted, from time to time, in significant impairments, and we may in the future be required to recognize additional impairment charges. changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairments of our intangible, fixed or other assets at any time in the future. in addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets are shorter than we originally estimated. such changes could reduce our net income. employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us. with approximately 399,000 employees, including approximately 323,000 in the u.s., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation and the decreasing trend of discount rates in which we use to value our pension liabilities. continued increasing health care costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or require significant contributions to our pension plans. we participate in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. several factors could cause us to make significantly higher future contributions to these plans, including unfavorable investment performance, increases in health care costs, changes in demographics and increased benefits to participants. at this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could result from our participation in these plans. we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 15 table of contents we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses and form joint ventures or strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operation, capabilities or technologies and the management of the transacted operations. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate the acquired operations, unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges or charges for impairment of long-term assets that we acquire. insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of the services we provide and the nature of our global operations, including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers' compensation. workers' compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. if the number or severity of claims for which we are retaining risk increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we lose our ability to self-insure these risks, our insurance costs could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. all of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. in order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate forward contracts, options and swaps. a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-a, diesel and unleaded gasoline, as well as changes in the price of natural gas. currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and ltl services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. additionally, we periodically use a combination of option contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 , however, we had no commodity option contracts outstanding. foreign currency exchange risk we have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. we are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities and cash flows. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, the british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. we use a combination of purchased and written options and forward contracts to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. these derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 24 months. additionally, we utilize cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge the currency risk inherent in the interest and principal payments associated with foreign currency denominated debt obligations. the terms of these swap agreements are commensurate with the underlying debt obligations. interest rate risk we have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with capital leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. we use a combination of interest rate swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. we also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. our floating rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily libor) interest rates. we also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods. we have investments in debt securities, as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. additionally, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. 53 table of contents united parcel service, inc. and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations equity price risk we hold investments in various common equity securities that are subject to price risk. these securities are primarily in the form of equity index funds. sensitivity analysis the following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to commodity price risk, foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk embedded in our existing financial instruments. we utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity and equity prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. there are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. while this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. we adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions. shock-test result as of december 31, (in millions) 2012 2011 change in fair value: currency derivatives (1) $ (1 ) $ (64 ) change in annual expense: variable rate debt (2) $ 7 $ 7 interest rate derivatives (2) $ 106 $ 71 (1) the potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities. (2) the potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances). the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in critical accounting policies and estimates . the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our marketable securities due to changes in equity prices and interest rates, respectively, was not material as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 . the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our finance receivables due to changes in interest rates was also not material as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 . 54 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors and may also be described from time to time in our future reports filed with the sec. you should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. item 1. business overview united parcel service, inc. ( ups ) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in seattle, washington. today, ups is the world's largest package delivery company, a leader in the u.s. less-than-truckload industry and the premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. we deliver packages each business day for 1.5 million shipping customers to 7.9 million receivers ("consignees") in over 220 countries and territories. in 2013 , we delivered an average of 16.9 million pieces per day worldwide, or a total of 4.3 billion packages. total revenue in 2013 was $ 55.4 billion . we are a global leader in logistics, and we create value for our customers through solutions that lower costs, improve service and provide highly customizable supply chain control and visibility. customers are attracted to our broad set of services that are delivered as promised through our integrated ground, air and ocean global network. our services and integrated network allow shippers to simplify their supply chains by using fewer carriers, and to adapt their transportation requirements and expenditures as their businesses evolve. across our service portfolio, we also provide control and visibility of customers' inventories and supply chains via our ups technology platform. the information flow from ups technology drives improvements for our customers, as well as for ups, in reliability, flexibility, productivity and efficiency. particularly over the last decade, ups has significantly expanded the scope of our capabilities to include more than package delivery. our logistics and distribution capabilities give companies the power to easily expand their businesses to new markets around the world. by leveraging our international infrastructure, ups enables our customers to bridge time zones, cultures, distances and languages to keep the entire supply chain moving smoothly. we serve the global market for logistics services, which include transportation, distribution, forwarding, ground, ocean and air freight, brokerage and financing. we have three reportable segments: u.s. domestic package, international package and supply chain &amp; freight, all of which are described below. for financial information concerning our reportable segments and geographic regions, refer to note 11 of our consolidated financial statements. 1 table of contents business strategy customers leverage our broad array of logistics capabilities; global presence in north america, europe, asia and latin america; reliability; industry-leading technologies; and solutions expertise for competitive advantage in markets where they choose to compete. we prudently invest to expand our integrated global network and our service portfolio. technology investments create user-friendly shipping, e-commerce, logistics management and visibility tools for our customers, while supporting ups's ongoing efforts to increase operational efficiencies. our service portfolio and investments are rewarded with among the best returns on invested capital and operating margins in the industry. we have a long history of sound financial management. our consolidated balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. as of december 31, 2013 , we had a balance of cash and marketable securities of approximately $ 5.245 billion and shareowners' equity of $ 6.488 billion . our moody's and standard &amp; poor's short-term credit ratings are p-1 and a-1, respectively. our moody's and standard &amp; poor's long-term credit ratings are aa3 and a+, respectively. we currently have a negative outlook from standard &amp; poor's and a stable outlook from moody's. cash generation is a significant strength of ups. this gives us strong capacity to service our obligations and allows for distributions to shareowners, reinvestment in our businesses and the pursuit of growth opportunities. we enable and are the beneficiaries of the following trends: expansion of global trade transcontinental and trade across borders is predicted to grow at rates that are in excess of the growth rates of u.s. and global gross domestic production for the foreseeable future. as a result, u.s. and international economies are becoming more inter-connected and dependent on foreign trade. ups plays an important role in global trade and is well positioned to take advantage of trade growth, wherever it occurs. our global presence and productivity enhancing technologies allow customers to expand into new markets. we advocate the expansion of free trade, including the passage of regional trade pacts and the removal of trade barriers. free trade is a catalyst for job creation, economic growth and improved living standards; additionally, it propels our growth. emerging market growth emerging market opportunities continue to expand. over the next 15 years, these markets are expected to represent nearly three quarters of global gdp growth, and an increasing proportion of global trade. emerging markets are understandably a focus of investment and growth for our current customers; in addition, they will be a source of ups's next generation of customers. to take advantage of these opportunities, ups will continue to make long-term investments in markets where our customers choose to grow. over the past ten years, ups has established a strong market presence in three leading emerging markets: china, poland, and turkey. going forward, the middle east, latin america, africa, and eastern europe will become increasingly important for ups. taken together, these two trends (expanding global trade and emerging market growth) underscore why our international business is a catalyst for ups's growth. increasing need for segment expertise in the integrated carrier space we provide repeatable, scalable sector solutions for our customers. we invest in global capabilities and create value propositions for certain industries where there is a fit between our customers' needs and our offerings. segments where we bring differentiated value propositions include health care, high-tech, automotive &amp; industrial manufacturing, retail, government, professional and consumer services. by identifying impactful trends, challenges, and opportunities, we are able to apply deep supply chain and segment-specific experience to benefit our customers. we incorporate our insights into our sales-and-solution process, and share these insights in company-sponsored forums and publications. by continuing to learn and share what we know, we not only maintain our competitiveness but also help our customers achieve their business objectives. 2 table of contents the health care industry faces complex challenges, including the continuing expiration of drug patents and the shifting landscape of regulatory requirements and drug pricing controls that differ by country. the recent introduction of the drug quality and security act in the u.s., and the earlier passage of new good distribution practice guidelines in europe, are two examples of this. to counter these challenges, many pharmaceutical companies have embarked on global expansion strategies that require infrastructure. ups has aligned our resources to serve these needs through a well-developed supply chain management capability that is designed to satisfy regulatory and compliance requirements. over the past two years, we opened 14 new dedicated health care facilities on four continents. we also expanded our health care network in north america, and are in the process of expanding our presence in brazil and mexico. in total, we currently operate nearly 6.5 million square feet of dedicated health care distribution space across an integrated network of 42 facilities. these facilities allow us to provide reliable, secure, cost-effective warehousing and distribution for pharmaceutical firms' supply chains, which, in turn, allow them to easily navigate across and within borders. we also continue to invest in innovative health care focused transportation solutions, including "ups temperature true" and "ups proactive response secure": ups temperature true - an air freight solution specifically designed to safeguard temperature-sensitive shipments using a portfolio of specialized containers with passive, semi-active, or active refrigeration. this service incorporates monitoring intervention capabilities and provides door-to-door transportation of sensitive products in accordance with precise, measurable operating procedures. in 2013, ups expanded its temperature true offering with two additional service levels: 1. temperature true standard , which provides an ideal solution for air freight passive containers requiring either refrigerated or controlled room temperatures; and 2. temperature true saver , which is a pioneering temperature-sensitive solution for ocean freight shippers. we also launched ups temperature true packaging to help our small package and freight customers design, validate, and procure their cold chain packaging. ups proactive response secure - safeguards the most valuable time- and temperature-sensitive items in the supply chain with contingency plans and financial risk mitigation. in addition to our basic proactive response service, insurance capabilities through ups capital are available; this is a unique offering in the marketplace. we will continue to expand our sector offerings, growing not only our physical and market footprint, but also our expertise and technologies to support industry-specific needs. our growth strategy is to increase the number of customers benefiting from these sector solutions and gain their associated transportation and logistics business. logistics outsourcing outsourcing supply chain management is becoming more prevalent, as customers increasingly view professional management and operation of their supply chains as a strategic advantage. this trend enables companies to focus on what they do best. we can meet our customers' needs for outsourced logistics with our global capabilities in customized forwarding, transportation, warehousing, distribution, delivery and post-sales services. as we move deeper into customers' supply chains, we do so with a shared vision on how to best equip our customers with transportation and logistics solutions to better serve their customers. we integrate our technology for efficiencies, visibility and control to ensure that we execute as promised and to provide peace of mind for our customers. retail e-commerce growth throughout much of the world, e-commerce growth continues to outpace traditional lines of business. our integrated network puts ups in an ideal position to capitalize on this shift towards residential deliveries. we continue to create new services, supported by ups technology, that complement the traditional ups premium home delivery service to address the needs of e-commerce shippers and consignees. our offerings span a broad spectrum that supports retailers across their value chain, from global sourcing to distribution and returns. we offer cost-sensitive solutions such as ups surepost, for shipments where economy takes precedence over speed, and feature-rich solutions, such as our ups my choice service that provides consignees with revolutionary visibility and control of their inbound shipments. 3 table of contents with ups my choice, consignees may direct the timing and location of their deliveries before a delivery attempt is made. premium features include online delivery planners, detailed driver instructions, alternate delivery locations and a two-hour delivery window. delivery alerts come via the channel chosen by the consignee email, sms text, mobile push, and facebook notifications. we strive to give our customers that ship using ups my choice the best delivery experience in the industry delivery on the first attempt, where and when their customers want it. in 2013, we further broadened our european business-to-consumer service portfolio by leveraging our kiala acquisition to create a retail network in the uk and germany under the brand name "ups access points. our integrated access point network has grown to 11,300 locations across seven european countries, with over 13,000 planned for 2014. this move enhances our cross-border e-commerce offerings for merchants, while also increasing choice for their consumers, who can opt to pick up or drop off their parcels at a retail location convenient to them. another way that we are facilitating cross-border trade is through our global e-commerce solution, which gives retailers the capability to provide landed cost in local currency with harmonized tariffs. we will continue to make strategic investments in this area that benefit both shippers and consignees, whose influence continues to increase as e-commerce grows. technology technology powers logistics. we bring industry-leading ups technology to our customers who, in turn, realize increased productivity, greater control of their supply chains and improved customer experience when they integrate with our technology. customers benefit through offerings such as: ups quantum view, which can help customers better manage shipments, facilitate tracking, allow for inbound volume planning, manage third-party shipping costs and automatically notify customers of incoming shipments. with visibility into transit times and delivery confirmations, customers can speed up their revenue cycle and collect accounts receivables more quickly. worldship, which is ups's flagship desktop shipping application, provides middle market and large customers with robust shipping capabilities. customers can create custom labels, set up shipment alerts, create and upload customs documentation, track and export shipments, create reports and integrate with their enterprise resource planning and accounting systems to streamline shipping with real-time connectivity. ups paperless invoice, which enables customers to submit a commercial invoice electronically when shipping internationally. this eliminates redundant data entry and errors, while reducing customs holds and paper waste. ups access point, which provides our customers a convenient alternative to home delivery, allows customers to use shops, convenience stores and other retail locations as a delivery location and a drop off location for return packages. these locations make picking up packages more convenient with extended hours, weekend accessibility and security. ups my choice, which focuses on the consignee, has transformed the residential delivery experience. receivers can direct the timing and circumstances of their deliveries using their computer, mobile devices or a new facebook app. this innovative service is powered by the complex integration of real-time route optimization and other technologies with our delivery network. two years after launching ups my choice, we now have nearly 7 million members. ups mobile, which includes the mobile website, m.ups.com, and apps for iphone, ipad, android and kindle fire devices, is readily available for any customer at any time. customers can track, ship, find ups locations, manage ups my choice shipments and receive shipment notifications with the convenience of their mobile devices. ups orderlink, which allows multiple-marketplace online auction sellers to ship their orders via ups.com. ups orderlink provides simplified shipment processing, access to multiple payment options, including paypal, and access to order and shipment history. the ups developer kit, which is comprised of multiple application programming interfaces ("apis"), helps customers streamline and automate their internal business processes. the ups developer kit apis allow customers to integrate a wide range of ups functionality into their business systems and websites such as address validation, shipment scheduling, selection of shipping service levels, tracking and much more. the ups billing center, which is a secure location for customers to view, download, manage and pay their ups invoices, helps customers accelerate their billing and payment processes. customers can assign privileges with administrative controls, manage multiple accounts and create reports using a single simple interface. 4 table of contents technology forms the foundation of our reliability and allows us to enhance the customer experience. technology delivers value to our customers and returns to our shareholders. recent developments that improve our operational efficiency, flexibility, reliability and customer experience include: continuing to rollout telematics to our delivery (domestic and international), freight forwarding and tractor-trailer fleet. telematics helps ups determine a truck's performance and condition by capturing data on more than 200 elements, including speed, rpm, oil pressure, seat belt use, number of times the vehicle is placed in reverse and idling time. together, improved data and driver coaching help reduce fuel consumption, emissions and maintenance costs, while improving driver safety. additionally, customers experience more consistent pickup times and more reliable deliveries, thereby enhancing their profitability and competitiveness. by the end of 2013, telematics had been installed in over 80,000 vehicles. implementing our on road integrated optimization and navigation system ( orion ), which employs advanced algorithms to determine the optimal route for each delivery while meeting service commitments. converting to keyless entry, which enables drivers to remotely turn the engine off with a button that will unlock the bulkhead door at the same time. in 2013, keyless entry had been installed on all package cars. ramping up installations of our next generation small sort ( ngss ) technology, which reduces the amount of memorization required to sort a package, thereby improving productivity and quality. employees sort packages to bins tagged with flashing lights, rather than memorizing addresses, allowing us to dramatically reduce training time. reporting segments and products &amp; services as a global leader in logistics, ups offers a broad range of domestic and export delivery services; the facilitation of international trade; and the deployment of advanced technology to more efficiently manage the world of business. we seek to streamline our customers' shipment processing and integrate critical transportation information into their own business processes, helping them to create supply chain efficiencies, better serve their customers and improve their cash flows. global small package ups's global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, small packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. we provide domestic delivery services within 54 countries and export services to more than 220 countries and territories around the world. we handle packages that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth as well as palletized shipments weighing greater than 150 pounds. all of our package services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies. ups handles all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through one global integrated pickup and delivery network. all packages are commingled within our network, except when necessary to meet their specific service commitments. this enables one ups driver to pick up our customers' shipments, for any of our services, at the same scheduled time each day. compared to companies with single service network designs, our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital efficiencies while being more environmentally-friendly. we offer same-day pickup of air and ground packages upon request. customers can schedule pickups for one to five days a week, based on their specific needs. additionally, we provide our customers with easy access to ups, with over 157,000 domestic and international entry points including: 39,000 drop boxes; 1,500 customer centers; 4,800 independently owned and operated locations of the ups store worldwide; 11,300 kiala and ups access point locations; 11,400 authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters; 5,500 alliance locations; and 83,900 ups drivers who can accept packages provided to them. the growth of online shopping has increased our customers' needs for efficient and reliable returns, resulting in our development of a robust selection of returns services that are available in 150 countries. options vary based on customer needs and country, and range from cost-effective solutions such as ups returns, to more-specialized services such as ups returns exchange. ups returns enables shippers to provide their customers with a return shipping label, while ups returns exchange simplifies product exchanges by delivering a replacement item and picking up a return item in the same stop, and assisting with the re-packaging process. we operate one of the largest airlines in the world, with global operations centered at our worldport hub in louisville, kentucky. worldport sort capacity, currently at 416,000 packages per hour, has expanded over the years due to volume growth and a centralization effort. our european air hub is located in cologne, germany, and we maintain asia-pacific air hubs in shanghai, china; shenzhen, china; and hong kong. our regional air hub in canada is located in hamilton, ontario, and our regional air hub for latin america and the caribbean is in miami, florida. 5 table of contents in the u.s., worldport is supported by our regional air hubs in columbia, south carolina; dallas, texas; ontario, california; philadelphia, pennsylvania; and rockford, illinois. this network design allows for cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facilities while enabling us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft. our u.s. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous u.s. u.s. domestic package reporting segment ups is a leader in time-definite, money-back guaranteed, small package delivery services. we offer a full spectrum of u.s. domestic guaranteed ground and air package transportation services. depending on the delivery speed needed, customers can select from a range of guaranteed time and day-definite delivery options. customers can select from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. many of these services offer options that enable customers to specify a time-of-day guarantee for their delivery (e.g. by 8:30, 10:30, noon, end of day, etc.). customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service that serves every u.s. business and residential address. ups delivers more ground packages than any other carrier, with nearly 12 million ground packages delivered on time every day in the u.s., most within one to three business days. ups also offers ups surepost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, light weight residential shipments. ups surepost is a contractual residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the ups ground network with final delivery provided by the u.s. postal service. international package reporting segment our international package reporting segment includes the small package operations in europe, asia, canada and latin america, the indian sub-continent, middle east and africa. ups offers a wide selection of guaranteed day and time-definite international shipping services. we offer three guaranteed time-definite express options (express plus, express and express saver) to more locations than any other carrier. in 2013, we introduced ups worldwide express freight for palletized shipments over 150 pounds from 38 points of origin to 42 points of destination. this service meets the needs of international customers that have palletized freight shipments and require the same speed and reliability as our international express package service. ups worldwide express freight leverages our unique combination of package and freight networks to provide industry leading transit times with a money-back guarantee. for international shipments that do not require express services, ups worldwide expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option. in 2013, we tripled the coverage area for ups worldwide expedited, providing delivery in two-to-five business days to more than 220 countries and territories. this expansion will help ups customers magnify their global reach and balance delivery speed with cost, no matter where they ship. for cross-border ground package delivery, we offer ups transborder standard delivery services within europe, between the u.s. and canada and between the u.s. and mexico. europe, our largest region outside of the u.s., accounts for roughly half of international revenue and is one of the primary drivers of our growth. several factors provide us significant additional opportunities, including the highly fragmented nature of the market and the fact that exports make up a significant part of europe's gdp. we believe there is a continued strong potential for growth in small package exports in germany, the u.k., france, italy, spain and the netherlands. to accommodate this strong growth, we will complete the expansion of our main european air hub in cologne, germany in the first quarter of 2014; it will have the capacity to process 190,000 packages per hour. asia remains attractive due to growth rates in intra-asia trade and the rapidly-expanding chinese economy. we are bringing faster time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-asia trade, and reducing transit days from asia to europe. through added flight frequencies, we provide our customers the ability to ship next day to more places in europe, guaranteed, than any other express carrier. we are continuing to build our presence in china through the expansion of our service capabilities, investing in our transportation network and strengthening brand awareness. additionally, we serve more than 40 asia-pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances with local delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations. 6 table of contents additional international highlights include the following: in south and central america, we benefit from the strong regional economy. our offerings include express package delivery in major cities as well as distribution and forwarding. in 2013, we purchased the assets and operations of two costa rican based firms: small package delivery company union pak de costa rica, s.a., and brokerage company seisa brokerage. both companies have long-standing relationships with ups as authorized service contractors (asc). these additions will allow us to better connect costa rica's expanding economy to regional and world markets through the ups network. for costa rican shippers, ups will be better positioned to provide customers one source for small package, freight forwarding, brokerage, and contract logistics, with a stronger link to ups's global transportation network. access to multi-modal services including ocean and air freight will improve customers' ability to ship across borders, boosting export trade lanes within latin america and to the u.s. we continue to grow our business organically in mexico. we are well positioned with freight, domestic, international and distribution services. we opened ten new ups express centers in mexico, located in strategic zones including monterrey, tijuana, chihuahua, veracruz, le n, and distrito federal. these new centers are aimed at increasing our presence among small and medium enterprises and the retail sector. we became the first global express delivery company to have a wholly-owned subsidiary in vietnam, following our acquisition of the 49% interest held by vn post express in our express delivery joint venture. this change allows us to better connect vietnam's rapidly expanding economy to world markets through the ups network. in february 2012, we broadened our european business-to-consumer service portfolio by acquiring kiala s.a., a belgium-based developer of a platform that enables e-commerce retailers to offer consumers the option of having goods delivered to a convenient retail location. supply chain &amp; freight reporting segment the supply chain &amp; freight segment consists of our forwarding and logistics services, our ups freight business, and our financial offerings through ups capital. supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with financial and information services. we meet this demand by offering a broad array of supply chain services in over 195 countries and territories, which are described below. the 2011 acquisition of italy-based pieffe group ( pieffe ) supports our global health care strategy, which has enabled us to make investments to better serve our growing customer base in the pharmaceutical, biotech and medical device industries. pieffe is a pharmaceutical logistics business with more than 35 years of experience offering high-quality storage, distribution and cold chain solutions to some of the world's leading pharmaceutical brands. our 2013 purchase of hungary-based pharmaceutical logistics company, cemelog zrt ("cemelog"), is part of our ongoing global growth and investment strategy. this acquisition further strengthens ups's health care reach and expertise in europe, enabling comprehensive, compliant services to customers in the pharmaceutical, biotech, and medical device industries across the increasingly important markets of central and eastern europe. we expanded our presence in china with the addition of two new contract logistics facilities in chengdu and shanghai, bringing the total to more than 130 owned and agent contract logistics facilities, covering 87 cities. these facilities provide distribution and warehousing solutions to shippers who want to reach customers within china and demonstrate our continued commitment to serving china's emerging middle class. ups also opened our new health care facility in hangzhou, zhejiang province, china; this move represents a significant expansion of our asia health care distribution network. this state-of-the-art facility has industry-leading technology to maintain product safety and integrity and is designed to offer seamless, global solutions to health care companies looking to expand into, transport within, and export from china. freight forwarding ups is one of the largest u.s. domestic air freight carriers and among the top international air freight forwarders globally. ups offers a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. additionally, as one of the world's leading non-vessel operating common carriers, ups also provides ocean freight full-container load and less-than container load shipments between most major ports around the world. 7 table of contents customs brokerage ups is among the world's largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees worldwide. we provide our customers with customs clearance, trade management and international trade consulting services. logistics and distribution ups logistics offers the following: distribution services: ups's comprehensive distribution services are provided through a global network of distribution centers that manage the flow of goods from receiving to storage and order processing to shipment. ups also provides many specialized services to streamline supply chains in the health care, high tech, retail and aerospace industries. together, these services allow companies to save time and money by minimizing their capital investment and positioning products closer to their customers. post sales: post sales services support goods after they have been delivered or installed in the field. the four core service offerings within post sales include: (1) critical parts fulfillment; (2) reverse logistics; (3) test, repair, and refurbish; and (4) network and parts planning. we leverage our global distribution network of over 950 field stocking locations to ensure that the right type and quantity of our customers' stock is in the right locations to meet the needs of their end-customers. this service allows our customers to maximize service while reducing costs. ups mail innovations: ups mail innovations offers an efficient, cost-effective method for sending lightweight parcels and flat mail to global addresses from the u.s. we pick up customers' domestic and international mail, and then sort, post, manifest and expedite the secured mail containers to the destination postal service for last-mile delivery. ups freight ups freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload ( ltl ) services, as well as full truckload services, in all 50 states, canada, puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands and mexico. ups freight provides reliable ltl service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. additionally, many user-friendly small package technology offerings are available for freight. applications such as ups worldship, billing center, and quantum view allow customers to process and track ltl shipments, create electronic bills of lading and reconcile billing. ups capital ups capital offers a range of services, including export and import financing to help improve cash flow, risk mitigation offerings to protect goods, as well as payment solutions that help speed the conversion cycle of payments. sustainability ups's business and corporate responsibility strategies pursue a common interest to increase the vitality and environmental sustainability of the global economy by aggregating the shipping activity of millions of businesses and individuals worldwide into a single, highly efficient logistics network. this provides benefits to: ups, by ensuring strong demand for our services. the economy, by making global supply chains more efficient and less expensive. the environment, by enabling our global customers to leverage ups's carbon efficiency and thereby reduce the carbon intensity of their supply chains. we pursue sustainable business practices worldwide through operational efficiency, fleet advances, facility engineering projects, and conservation-enabling technology and service offerings. we help our customers to do the same. in 2013, we conducted our second corporate materiality assessment. we once again worked with the non-profit organization business for social responsibility ("bsr") to evaluate significant sustainability issues (economic, environmental and social), and ranked each issue by importance based on multiple stakeholder feedback. we then worked with bsr to update our materiality matrix by mapping the issues on a grid with two axes: importance to stakeholder and influence on business success . the materiality matrix is used to aid in prioritizing our sustainability strategy. 8 table of contents sustainability highlights in 2013 include: recognized by fortune magazine as one of the world's most admired companies in 2013 . one of corporate responsibility's 100 best corporate citizens for the 4th consecutive year. recognized by ethisphere institute as one of the world's most ethical companies . named to interbrands best global brands for the 9th consecutive year. we ranked in the top 100 in brand value around the world (#27) and were the only company in the transportation sector to make the list in 2013 . recognized as a constituent of the dow jones sustainability north america index for the 9th consecutive year; in addition, we were included on the dow jones sustainability world index for the first time since 2006. recognized as a constituent of the nasdaq omx and the stoxx nasdaq omx global sustainability index for the 4th consecutive year. one of america's top organizations for multicultural business opportunities by diversitybusiness.com. achieved a score of 99% in response to the carbon disclosure project for the 3rd consecutive year. more information on how ups addresses its most significant sustainability issues is available in the ups corporate sustainability report and on the ups sustainability website. community we believe that strong communities are vital to the success of our company. by combining our philanthropy with the volunteer time and talents of our employees, ups helps drive positive change for organizations and communities in need across the globe. the highlights of our corporate citizenship efforts in 2013 include: local non-profits around the world received more than 1.8 million hours of volunteer service from ups employees participating in our neighbor-to-neighbor program. the ups foundation, which oversees corporate citizenship efforts for the company, invested $102 million in donations of both cash and in-kind services to global causes primarily in four focus areas community safety, environmental sustainability, diversity and volunteerism. ups employees, both active and retired, contributed $51 million to united way in 2013 which was matched by a corporate contribution of $8 million. through the ups foundation we have the opportunity to support our global communities to offset carbon, support clean water, reduce poverty and help individuals sustain their lives through the planting of trees. the ups global tree planting initiative is the signature program of the ups foundation's environmental focus area. in 2013, we supported the planting of 1.3 million trees worldwide. ups continued to aid communities impacted by disasters through our ups humanitarian relief program, by providing our logistics expertise, skilled volunteers, capacity building support and in-kind services. in 2013, ups coordinated more than 250 humanitarian relief shipments across 46 countries and provided funding and logistics support to strengthen long-term recovery efforts of communities impacted by hurricane sandy, the oklahoma tornados, typhoon haiyan in the philippines, flooding in colorado, mexico and india as well as families displaced by the syrian refugee crisis. thousands of teenagers and novice drivers in the u.s., canada, the u.k., and germany participated in ups road code. this safety program for new drivers features ups employees as instructors a role where they share driving knowledge and safety tips amassed over our long history of safe driving. reputation great brands require connecting with customers. in working to develop these connections, we have once again received high accolades from independent brand evaluations. in 2013 , we were pleased that ups earned the top rating in our industry on interbrand's best global brands and millward brown's brandz most valuable global brands. ups also was named to industry-leading positions in fortune magazine's most admired and harris interactive's reputation quotient surveys. 9 table of contents employees the strength of our company is our people, working together with a common purpose. we had approximately 395,000 employees (excluding temporary seasonal employees) as of december 31, 2013 , of which 318,000 are in the u.s. and 77,000 are located internationally. our global workforce includes approximately 71,000 management employees (37% of whom are part-time) and 324,000 hourly employees (48% of whom are part-time). as of december 31, 2013 , we had approximately 253,000 employees employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the international brotherhood of teamsters ("teamsters"). in april 2013, we reached a tentative agreement with the teamsters on two new national master agreements in the u.s. domestic package and ups freight business units, both of which are retroactive to august 1, 2013 and will remain effective through july 31, 2018. before expiration of the existing national master agreements, the company and the teamsters agreed to extensions of both existing five-year national master agreements and all supplemental agreements. the extensions are open-ended and can be terminated by either party on thirty days' notice. ups teamster-represented employees in the u.s. domestic package business unit subsequently voted to approve the new national master agreement in june 2013, while several local u.s. domestic package supplemental agreements require additional negotiation and approval before ratification occurs. as of february 2014, there were a total of six supplemental agreements that still have to be approved before ratification. we anticipate that the remaining agreements will be voted upon in the coming months. the ups freight business unit ratified its national master agreement in january 2014. we have approximately 2,600 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the independent pilots association ( ipa ), which became amendable at the end of 2011 . in february 2014, ups and the ipa requested mediation by the national mediation board for the ongoing contract negotiations. our airline mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with teamsters local 2727, which became amendable on november 1, 2013 . in addition, approximately 3,100 of our ground mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the international association of machinists and aerospace workers ( iam ). our agreement with the iam runs through july 31, 2014 . the experience of our management team continues to be an organizational strength. nearly 37% of our full-time managers have more than 20 years of service with ups. we believe that our relations with our employees are good. we periodically survey all our employees to determine their level of job satisfaction. areas of concern receive management attention as we strive to keep ups the employer-of-choice among our employees. we consistently receive numerous awards and wide recognition as an employer-of-choice, resulting in part from our emphasis on diversity and corporate citizenship. safety health and safety is a core value at ups and an enduring belief that the wellbeing of our people, business partners, and the public is of utmost importance. we train our people to avoid injury to themselves and others in all aspects of their work. we do not tolerate unsafe work practices. we use an all-encompassing comprehensive health and safety process ("chsp") to prevent occupational illnesses, injuries, and auto crashes, as well as promote wellness through the development of workplace programs. the foundation of this process is our co-chaired employee and management health and safety committees. together they conduct facility and equipment audits, perform work practice and behavior analysis, conduct training, and recommend work process and equipment changes. 10 table of contents the components of chsp are: personal value - which is the foundation and forms the base of our safety and wellness culture. management commitment and employee involvement - where employees take an active role in their own safety as well as their fellow workers and are supported by management. work site analysis - which includes injury and auto crash data analysis, behavior observations, and facility and equipment audits to identify gaps and develop solutions. our operations managers are responsible for their employees' safety results. we investigate every injury and auto crash and develop prevention activities. hazard prevention and control - where solutions are developed and documented to ensure identified risks have been mitigated. safety education and training - employees who are healthy and well-trained in proper methods are more safe and efficient in performing their jobs. our approach starts with training the trainer. all trainers are certified to ensure that they have the skills and motivation to effectively instruct new employees. all new employees receive safety training during orientation and in the work area. in addition, each new driver receives extensive classroom and online instruction, as well as on-road training. other components to ensure the safety of our fleet include: recognition - we have a well-defined safe driving honor plan to recognize our drivers when they achieve accident-free milestones. we have more than 7,200 drivers enshrined in our coveted circle of honor for drivers who have driven 25 years or more without an avoidable auto crash. preventive maintenance - we have a comprehensive preventive maintenance program to ensure the safety of our fleet. our fleet is managed and monitored electronically to ensure that each vehicle is serviced at a specific time to prevent malfunction or breakdown. competition we are the largest package delivery company in the world, in terms of both revenue and volume. we offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and, therefore, compete with many different local, regional, national and international companies. our competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of participants in the supply chain, financial services and information technology industries. competitive strengths our competitive strengths include: integrated global network. we believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. we handle all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through a single pickup and delivery service network. our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. this unique, integrated global business model creates consistent and superior returns. we believe we have the most comprehensive integrated delivery and information services portfolio of any carrier in europe. in other regions of the world, we rely on both our own and local service providers' capabilities to meet our service commitments. global presence. ups serves more than 220 countries and territories around the world. we have a presence in all of the world's major economies. leading-edge technology. we are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers optimize their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency. technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. our technology offerings are initiated by our customers' needs. we offer a variety of online service options that enable our customers to integrate ups functionality into their own businesses not only to send, manage and track their shipments conveniently, but also to provide their customers with better information services. we provide the infrastructure for an internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated ups tools directly into their own web sites. 11 table of contents broad portfolio of services. our portfolio of services enables customers to choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many ups services in addition to package delivery. for example, our supply chain services such as freight forwarding, customs brokerage, order fulfillment, and returns management help improve the efficiency of the supply chain management process. customer relationships. we focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. we serve 1.5 million pick-up customers and 7.9 million delivery customers daily. cross-selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for ups. brand equity. we have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service, reliability and product innovation. the distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the professional courtesy of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity. distinctive culture. we believe that the dedication of our employees results in large part from our distinctive employee-owner concept. our employee stock ownership tradition dates from 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees. to facilitate employee stock ownership, we maintain several stock-based compensation programs. our long-standing policy of promotion from within complements our tradition of employee ownership, and this policy reduces the need for us to hire managers and executive officers from outside ups. the majority of our management team began their careers as full-time or part-time hourly ups employees, and have spent their entire careers with us. many of our executive officers have more than 30 years of service with ups and have accumulated a meaningful ownership stake in our company. therefore, our executive officers have a strong incentive to effectively manage ups, which benefits all our shareowners. financial strength. our balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. our financial strength gives us the resources to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and facilities; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; to service our obligations; and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends and share repurchases. government regulation air operations the u.s. department of transportation ( dot ), the federal aviation administration ( faa ), and the u.s. department of homeland security, through the transportation security administration ( tsa ), have regulatory authority over united parcel service co.'s ( ups airlines' ) air transportation services. the federal aviation act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for dot and faa authority and the aviation and transportation security act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for tsa aviation security authority. the dot's authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. the dot also regulates, subject to the authority of the president of the united states, international routes, fares, rates and practices, and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of u.s. air carriers abroad. international operating rights for u.s. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreement between the u.s. and foreign governments. ups airlines has international route operating rights granted by the dot and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. the efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on dot and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions. the faa's authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities, and personnel. in 1988, the faa granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable faa regulations. in addition, we are subject to non-u.s. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-u.s. jurisdictions, and non-u.s. customs regulation. faa regulations mandate an aircraft corrosion control program, along with aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals specified by approved programs and procedures, for all aircraft. our total expenditures under these programs for 2013 were not material. the future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional faa regulatory requirements. 12 table of contents the tsa regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the tsa mission statement to protect the nation's transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce. ups airlines, and specified airport and off-airport locations, are regulated under tsa regulations applicable to the transportation of cargo in an air network. in addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with tsa regulations. ups airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the civil reserve air fleet ( craf ) program. our participation in the craf program allows the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) to requisition specified ups airlines wide-body aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. the dod compensates us for the use of aircraft under the craf program. in addition, participation in craf entitles ups airlines to bid for military cargo charter operations. ground operations our ground transportation of packages in the u.s. is subject to the dot's and the states' jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of operations, safety, insurance and hazardous materials. we are subject to similar regulation in many non-u.s. jurisdictions. the postal reorganization act of 1970 created the u.s. postal service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the postal rate commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. the postal accountability and enhancement act of 2006 amended the 1970 act to give the re-named postal regulatory commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the postal service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. we sometimes participate in the proceedings before the postal regulatory commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services. customs we are subject to the customs laws in the countries in which we operate, regarding the import and export of shipments, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters. environmental we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. these laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: proper storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous and other waste; managing wastewater and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases; and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. ups has established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. in addition, ups has created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations. other regulations we are subject to numerous other u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, in addition to applicable foreign laws, in connection with our package and non-package businesses in the countries in which we operate. these laws and regulations include those enforced by u.s. customs and border protection and other agencies of the u.s. department of homeland security, the u.s. department of treasury, the federal maritime commission, the u.s. drug enforcement administration, the u.s. food and drug administration and the u.s. department of agriculture. where you can find more information ups maintains a website at www.ups.com . our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available through our website www.investors.ups.com as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the sec. also available on the corporation's website are the company's corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. however, information on these websites is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the sec. 13 table of contents we have adopted a written code of business conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. it is available in the governance section of the investor relations website, located at www.investors.ups.com . in the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the code of business conduct that the sec requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our investor relations website. our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available in the governance section of the investor relations website. our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available at www.sustainability.ups.com . we provide the addresses to our internet sites solely for the information of investors. we do not intend for any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this report. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. you should read these risk factors in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in item 8. general economic conditions, both in the u.s. and internationally, may adversely affect our results of operations. we conduct operations in over 220 countries and territories. our u.s. and international operations are subject to normal cycles affecting the economy in general, as well as the local economic environments in which we operate. the factors that create cyclical changes to the economy and to our business are beyond our control, and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model to mitigate the impact of these factors. in particular, our business is affected by levels of industrial production, consumer spending and retail activity, and our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by adverse developments in these aspects of the economy. we face significant competition which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we face significant competition on a local, regional, national and international basis. our competitors include the postal services of the u.s. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. competition may also come from other sources in the future. some of our competitors have cost and organizational structures that differ from ours and may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to competitive pressures, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. the transportation industry continues to consolidate and competition remains strong. as a result of consolidation, our competitors may increase their market share and improve their financial capacity, and may strengthen their competitive positions. business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance. changes in our relationships with our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have an adverse impact on us. no single customer accounts for 10% or more of our consolidated revenue. we do not believe the loss of any single customer would materially impair our overall financial condition or results of operations; however, collectively, some of these large customers might account for a relatively significant portion of the growth in revenue in a particular quarter or year. these customers can drive the growth in revenue for particular services based on factors such as: new customer product launches; the seasonality associated with the fourth quarter holiday season; business mergers and acquisitions; and the overall fast growth of a customer's underlying business. these customers could choose to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, demand pricing concessions for our services, require us to provide enhanced services that increase our costs, or develop their own shipping and distribution capabilities. if these factors drove some of our large customers to cancel all or a portion of their business relationships with us, it could materially impact the growth in our business and the ability to meet our current and long-term financial forecasts. 14 table of contents our business is subject to complex and stringent regulation in the u.s. and internationally. we are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment and other governmental laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. in addition, our business is impacted by laws and regulations that affect global trade, including tariff and trade policies, export requirements, taxes and other restrictions and charges. changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. the impact of new laws and regulations cannot be predicted. compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations in the u.s. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. increased security requirements could impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an attack or have a security breach. as a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, governments around the world have adopted or may adopt stricter security requirements that will result in increased operating costs for businesses in the transportation industry. these requirements may change periodically as a result of regulatory and legislative requirements and in response to evolving threats. we cannot determine the effect that these new requirements will have on our cost structure or our operating results, and these rules or other future security requirements may increase our costs of operations and reduce operating efficiencies. regardless of our compliance with security requirements or the steps we take to secure our facilities or fleet, we could be the target of an attack or security breaches could occur, which could adversely affect our operations or our reputation. we may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such a potential change. concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions. for example, in the past several years, the u.s. congress has considered various bills that would regulate ghg emissions. while these bills have not yet received sufficient congressional support for enactment, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. even in the absence of such legislation, the environmental protection agency, spurred by judicial interpretation of the clean air act, may regulate ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. these costs include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or vehicles prematurely. until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. it is reasonably possible that such legislation or regulation could impose material costs on us. moreover, even without such legislation or regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the ghgs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. a significant number of our employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the teamsters. in addition, our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide services. we may face a permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. 15 table of contents we are exposed to the effects of changing prices of energy, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities. changing fuel and energy costs may have a significant impact on our operations. we require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. we mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our indexed fuel surcharges and we may also enter into hedging transactions from time to time. if we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could adversely impact our operating results. even if we are able to offset the cost of fuel with our surcharges, high fuel surcharges may result in a mix shift from our higher-yielding air products to lower-yielding ground products or an overall reduction in volume. if fuel prices rise sharply, even if we are successful in increasing our fuel surcharge, we could experience a lag time in implementing the surcharge, which could adversely affect our short-term operating results. there can be no assurance that our hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices. moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies, including our supply of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as a result of war, actions by producers, or other factors beyond our control, which could have an adverse effect on our business. changes in exchange rates or interest rates may have an adverse effect on our results. we conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the united states. our operations in international markets are affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. the impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting our debt is discussed in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk section of this report. we monitor and manage our exposures to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and make limited use of derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of changes in these rates on our financial position and results of operations; however, changes in exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. if we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the ups brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, environmental concerns, security matters, political activities and the like, or attempts to connect our company to these sorts of issues, either in the united states or other countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and acceptance of our services by customers. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. a significant privacy breach or it system disruption could adversely affect our business and we may be required to increase our spending on data and system security. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. in addition, the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our network involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. groups of hackers may also act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service attacks or other coordinated attacks that may cause service outages or other interruptions. in addition, breaches in security could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data. any of these occurrences could result in disruptions in our operations, the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, and litigation and potential liability for the company. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data or system protection measures could be significant. 16 table of contents severe weather or other natural or manmade disasters could adversely affect our business. severe weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters, including storms, floods, fires and earthquakes, may result in decreased revenues, as our customers reduce their shipments, or increased costs to operate our business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for a quarter or year. any such event affecting one of our major facilities could result in a significant interruption in or disruption of our business. we make significant capital investments in our business of which a significant portion is tied to projected volume levels. we require significant capital investments in our business consisting of aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sorting and other types of equipment to support both our existing business and anticipated growth. forecasting projected volume involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty, such as general economic trends, changes in governmental regulation and competition. if we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect our revenues and profitability. in addition to forecasting our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to adverse economic conditions; however, these adjustments may not be sufficient to allow us to maintain our operating margins in a weak economy. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in emerging markets. we have significant international operations and while the geographical diversity of our international operations helps ensure that we are not overly reliant on a single region or country, we are continually exposed to changing economic, political and social developments beyond our control. emerging markets are typically more volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to changes in markets and our business plans that have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. our regular review of the carrying value of our assets has resulted, from time to time, in significant impairments, and we may in the future be required to recognize additional impairment charges. changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairments of our intangible, fixed or other assets at any time in the future. in addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets are shorter than we originally estimated. such changes could reduce our net income. employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us. with approximately 395,000 employees, including approximately 318,000 in the u.s., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in some of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation and the decreasing trend of discount rates that we use to value our pension liabilities. continued increasing health care costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or require significant contributions to our pension plans. the new national master agreement with the teamsters, which is subject to ratification, includes changes that are designed to mitigate certain of these health care expenses, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that the failure or success of these efforts will not adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. we participate in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. several factors could cause us to make significantly higher future contributions to these plans, including unfavorable investment performance, increases in health care costs, changes in demographics and increased benefits to participants. at this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could result from our participation in these plans. 17 table of contents we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses and form joint ventures or strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operations, capabilities or technologies and the management of the acquired operations. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate the acquired operations, unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges or charges for impairment of long-term assets that we acquire. insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of the services we provide and the nature of our global operations, including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers' compensation. workers' compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. if the number or severity of claims for which we are retaining risk increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we lose our ability to self-insure these risks, our insurance costs could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. all of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. in order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate forward contracts, options and swaps. a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-a, diesel and unleaded gasoline, as well as changes in the price of natural gas. currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and ltl services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. additionally, we periodically use a combination of option, forward and futures contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 , however, we had no commodity option contracts outstanding. foreign currency exchange risk we have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. we are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities and cash flows. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, the british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. we use a combination of purchased and written options to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. these derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 24 months. we also utilize forward contracts to hedge portions of our anticipated cash settlements of intercompany transactions subject to foreign currency remeasurement. additionally, we utilize cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge the currency risk inherent in the interest and principal payments associated with foreign currency denominated debt obligations. the terms of these swap agreements are commensurate with the underlying debt obligations. 58 table of contents united parcel service, inc. and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations interest rate risk we have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with capital leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. we use a combination of interest rate swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. we also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. our floating rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily libor) interest rates. we also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods. we have investments in debt securities, as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. additionally, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. equity price risk we hold investments in various common equity securities that are subject to price risk. these securities are primarily in the form of equity index funds. sensitivity analysis the following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to commodity price risk, foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk embedded in our existing financial instruments. we utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity and equity prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. there are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. while this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. we adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions. shock-test result as of december 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 change in fair value: currency derivatives (1) $ (291 ) $ (1 ) change in annual interest expense: variable rate debt (2) $ 7 $ 7 interest rate derivatives (2) $ 101 $ 106 change in annual interest income: marketable securities (3) $ 15 $ 10 (1) the potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities. (2) the potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances). (3) the potential change in interest income resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate investment holdings. the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in critical accounting policies and estimates . the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our finance receivables due to changes in interest rates was not material as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 . 59 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors and may also be described from time to time in our future reports filed with the sec. you should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. item 1. business overview united parcel service, inc. ( ups ) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in seattle, washington. today, ups is the world's largest package delivery company, a leader in the u.s. less-than-truckload industry and the premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. we deliver packages each business day for 1.6 million shipping customers to 8.2 million receivers ("consignees") in over 220 countries and territories. in 2014 , we delivered an average of 18.0 million pieces per day worldwide, or a total of 4.6 billion packages. total revenue in 2014 was $ 58.2 billion . we are a global leader in logistics, and we create value for our customers through solutions that lower costs, improve service and provide highly customizable supply chain control and visibility. customers are attracted to our broad set of services that are delivered as promised through our integrated ground, air and ocean global network. our services and integrated network allow shippers to simplify their supply chains by using fewer carriers, and to adapt their transportation requirements and expenditures as their businesses evolve. across our service portfolio, we also provide control and visibility of customers' inventories and supply chains via our ups technology platform. the information flow from ups technology drives improvements for our customers, as well as for ups, in reliability, flexibility, productivity and efficiency. particularly over the last decade, ups has significantly expanded the scope of our capabilities to include more than package delivery. our logistics and distribution capabilities give companies the power to easily expand their businesses to new markets around the world. by leveraging our international infrastructure, ups enables our customers to bridge time zones, cultures, distances and languages to keep the entire supply chain moving smoothly. we serve the global market for logistics services, which include transportation, distribution, forwarding, ground freight, ocean freight, air freight, brokerage and financing. we have three reportable segments: u.s. domestic package, international package and supply chain &amp; freight, all of which are described below. for financial information concerning our reportable segments and geographic regions, refer to note 11 of our consolidated financial statements. 1 business strategy customers leverage our broad array of logistics capabilities; global presence in north america, europe, asia and latin america; reliability; industry-leading technologies; and solutions expertise for competitive advantage in markets where they choose to compete. we prudently invest to expand our integrated global network and service portfolio. technology investments create user-friendly shipping, e-commerce, logistics management and visibility tools for our customers, while supporting our ongoing effort to increase operational efficiencies. our service portfolio and investments are rewarded with among the best return on invested capital and operating margins in the industry. we have a long history of sound financial management. our consolidated balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. our moody's and standard &amp; poor's short-term credit ratings are p-1 and a-1, respectively. our moody's and standard &amp; poor's long-term credit ratings are aa3 and a+, respectively. we currently have a stable outlook from both moody's and standard &amp; poor's. cash generation is a significant strength of ups. this gives us strong capacity to service our obligations and allows for distributions to shareowners, reinvestment in our businesses and the pursuit of growth opportunities. we enable and are the beneficiaries of the following trends: expansion of global trade transcontinental and trade across borders are predicted to grow faster than u.s. and global gross domestic production for the foreseeable future. as a result, u.s. and international economies are becoming more inter-connected and dependent on foreign trade. ups plays an important role in global trade and is well positioned to take advantage of trade growth, wherever it occurs. our global presence and productivity enhancing technologies allow customers to expand into new markets. we advocate the expansion of free trade, including the passage of regional trade pacts and the removal of trade barriers. free trade is a catalyst for job creation, economic growth and improved living standards; additionally, it propels our growth. emerging market growth emerging market opportunities continue to expand. over the next ten years, these markets are expected to represent the majority of global gdp growth, and an increasing proportion of global trade. emerging markets are understandably a focus of investment and growth for our current customers; in addition, they will be a source of ups's next generation of customers. to take advantage of these opportunities, ups will continue to make long-term investments in markets where our customers choose to grow. over the past ten years, ups has established a strong market presence in three leading emerging markets: china, poland and turkey. in the future, the middle east, latin america, africa and eastern europe will become increasingly important for ups. taken together, these two trends (expanding global trade and emerging market growth) underscore why our international business is a catalyst for ups's growth. increasing need for segment expertise in the integrated carrier, logistics and transportation space we offer differentiated value propositions in several segments, including automotive and industrial manufacturing, retail, government, professional and consumer services, healthcare and high-tech. our industry-specific solutions are increasingly tailored to align with customer needs in each of these sectors. staying abreast of industry trends positions us to anticipate business challenges in each industry. we deepen our understanding by studying these challenges and engaging with customers at the strategic planning stage. we then align our logistics expertise to address these business challenges to help our customers compete. our understanding of how macro and industry trends impact the stakeholders in each market allows us to develop commercial insights for our customers. these insights are incorporated into our sales-and-solution process and are shared with customers through direct engagement, industry forums and publications. by inviting our customers to leverage our capabilities to improve their overall industry performance, we help them achieve their business objectives and maintain our own competitiveness. 2 the combination of rising demand for healthcare services around the globe, new product innovations, increasing regulatory demands and downward pressure on reimbursement is creating both exciting opportunities and complex challenges for healthcare and life sciences companies. in today's environment, healthcare logistics executives are most concerned with regulatory compliance, product security, supply chain cost management and product damage/spoilage. to address these challenges, more healthcare and life sciences companies are relying on partnerships with third party logistics providers that can provide efficient, scalable solutions that enable instant access to healthcare compliant infrastructure, provide options for temperature-sensitive transportation and storage capabilities and have expertise in the regulatory requirements of the markets they seek to enter. ups is in a unique position to offer our clients such solutions through the combination of our dedicated healthcare transportation and distribution capabilities which sit atop our vast, global integrated transportation network and are managed by a team of employees with healthcare logistics expertise. over the past two years, we opened 15 new dedicated healthcare facilities on four continents, with our most recent additions in the united kingdom, mexico, brazil and poland. in total, we operate nearly seven million square feet of dedicated healthcare distribution space across an integrated network of 49 facilities. these facilities allow us to provide reliable, secure and cost-effective warehousing and distribution for healthcare and life sciences firms, which, in turn, allow them to easily navigate across and within borders. rapid technology innovation and growing worldwide demand for electronics are driving change in the already-dynamic high-tech industry. as the technology marketplace becomes more complex, high-tech companies must manage and optimize their supply chains to remain competitive. every year, product lifecycles are getting shorter, dictating the need for high-tech companies to better predict demand and understand their logistics requirements. increasingly, they are looking to third party logistics providers for support in product launches, distribution, post-sales support and reverse logistics. we have the expertise these companies need, as well as, a global transportation network and integrated technology solutions that can generate supply chain efficiency. this means high-tech companies, large and small, can get their products to market faster, improve customer service and boost revenue. we offer global sourcing and a significant amount of repair space to leverage one of the largest networks of post-sales facilities in the world. with more than 950 field stocking locations in 147 countries, we help high-tech companies identify better ways to meet their crucial logistics needs. our experience and global capabilities make us a strong partner in the high-tech industry. we will continue to expand our industry-specific support by growing our physical footprint and enhancing our technology based on our deepening understanding of industry-specific needs. our aim is to increase the number of customers benefiting from these solutions and gain their associated transportation and logistics business. logistics outsourcing outsourcing supply chain management is becoming more prevalent, as customers increasingly view professional management and operation of their supply chains as a strategic advantage. this trend enables companies to focus on what they do best. we can meet our customers' needs for outsourced logistics with our global capabilities in customized forwarding, transportation, warehousing, distribution, delivery and post-sales services. as we move deeper into customers' supply chains, we do so with a shared vision on how to best equip our customers with transportation and logistics solutions to better serve their customers. we integrate our technology for efficiencies, visibility and control to ensure that we execute as promised and to provide peace of mind for our customers. retail e-commerce growth throughout much of the world, e-commerce growth continues to outpace traditional lines of business. our integrated network puts ups in an ideal position to capitalize on the shift towards residential deliveries. we continue to create new services, supported by ups technology, that complement the traditional ups premium home delivery service and address the needs of e-commerce shippers and consignees. our offerings span a broad spectrum that supports retailers across their value chain, from global sourcing to distribution and returns. we offer cost-sensitive solutions such as ups surepost, for shipments where economy takes precedence over speed, and feature-rich solutions, such as our ups my choice service that provides consignees with revolutionary visibility and control of their inbound shipments. ups my choice keeps members up-to-date on their parcels' delivery status through proactive alerts, and offers flexible delivery options to control when and where deliveries occur. following on the success of ups my choice in the u.s. (over 13 million members), we expanded the service to 15 additional countries and territories in the americas and europe regions in 2014. with ups my choice, consignees may direct the timing and location of their deliveries before a delivery attempt is made. we strive to give our customers the best delivery experience in the industry---delivery on the first attempt, where and when their customers want them. 3 when ups my choice members will not be home to accept a delivery, they can redirect packages to ups access point locations. ups access points are convenient locations - such as the ups store and other local businesses - that offer easy package drop-off and pickup. with evening and weekend hours, ups access point locations fit consumers' schedules and enable ups to get packages delivered faster. shippers in 50 origin countries and territories can ship directly to ups access point locations in 12 destination countries, giving shippers and consignees greater control over package deliveries. our integrated ups access point network in europe now has nearly 14,000 locations across nine countries with the 2014 additions of poland and italy. we also expanded into north america to include locations in canada, mexico and the united states. by the end of 2015, we expect to have more than 20,000 locations worldwide. this move enhances our cross-border e-commerce offerings for retailers, while increasing choice for their customers, who can opt to pick up or drop off their parcels at retail locations that are convenient to them. in 2014, ups announced the purchase of i-parcel, llc. this new offering focuses on innovative international e-commerce and logistics. the combination of ups and i-parcel yields a global e-commerce solution that further strengthens our global business-to-consumer capabilities. this solution enables merchants to connect to over 100 million global shoppers by providing an integrated web platform, creating a localized look and feel for international shoppers. the technology empowers merchants to instantly localize their shopping cart value and provide a seamless shopping experience for international customers. this solution serves retail shoppers in over 100 countries and includes local currency options, fully-landed prices, and fully trackable, end-to-end delivery services. technology technology forms the foundation of our reliability and allows us to enhance the customer experience. technology delivers value to our customers and returns to our shareowners. recent developments that improve our operational efficiency, flexibility, reliability and customer experience include: continuing rollout of telematics to our international delivery fleet. we have completed the deployment of telematics to our domestic small package, freight forwarding and ground freight fleets. telematics helps ups determine a truck's performance and condition by capturing data on more than 200 related elements, including speed, rpm, oil pressure, seat belt use, number of times the vehicle is placed in reverse and idling time. together, improved data and driver coaching help reduce fuel consumption, emissions and maintenance costs, while improving driver safety. additionally, customers experience more consistent pickup times and more reliable deliveries, thereby enhancing their profitability and competitiveness. by the end of 2014, telematics had been installed in over 82,000 vehicles. implementing our on road integrated optimization and navigation system ( orion ), which employs advanced algorithms to determine the optimal route for each delivery while meeting service commitments. by the end of 2014, orion was deployed to over 23,000 drivers. converting to keyless entry, which enables drivers to remotely turn the engine off with a button that will unlock the bulkhead door at the same time. keyless entry is installed on all package cars in the u.s. and canada. ramping up installations of our next generation small sort ( ngss ) technology, which reduces the amount of memorization required to sort a package, thereby improving productivity and quality. employees sort packages to bins tagged with flashing lights, rather than memorizing addresses, allowing us to dramatically reduce training time. ngss is deployed to 285 sites globally and 64 additional sites are under evaluation for 2015. we bring industry-leading ups technology to our customers who, in turn, realize increased productivity, greater control of their supply chains and improved customer experience when they integrate with our systems. customers benefit through offerings such as: shipping worldship , which is ups's flagship desktop shipping application, provides middle market and large customers with robust shipping capabilities. customers can create custom labels, set up shipment alerts, create and upload customs documentation, track and export shipments, create reports and integrate with their enterprise resource planning and accounting systems to streamline shipping with real-time connectivity. ups marketplace shipping, which integrates www.ups.com with ebay and amazon , allows marketplace sellers to easily ship their orders via www.ups.com or worldship. ups marketplace shipping provides simplified shipment processing, access to order and shipment history, automatically updates the marketplace with tracking information and provides access to multiple payment options, including paypal . 4 tracking and visibility ups quantum view can help customers better manage shipments, facilitate tracking, allow for inbound volume planning, manage third-party shipping costs and automatically notify customers of incoming shipments. with visibility into transit times and delivery confirmations, customers can speed up their revenue cycle and collect accounts receivables more quickly while improving customer service. international trade tools ups paperless solutions allow customers to self-enroll in ups paperless invoice and to upload shipping documents. these solutions enable customers to electronically transmit a commercial invoice, packing list or their own customs documents when shipping internationally. this eliminates redundant data entry and errors, while reducing customs delays and paper waste. ups tradeability tools help customers effectively and confidently manage the movement of goods internationally in a timely, efficient and compliant manner. billing the ups billing center, a secure location for customers to view, download, manage and pay their ups invoices, helps customers accelerate billing and payment processes. customers can assign privileges with administrative controls, manage multiple accounts and create custom reports using a simple interface. integration the ups developer kit, which is comprised of multiple application programming interfaces ("apis"), helps customers streamline and automate their internal business processes. the ups developer kit apis allow customers to integrate a wide range of ups functionality into their business systems and websites such as address validation, shipment scheduling, selection of shipping service levels, tracking and much more. business-to-consumer all ups access point locations are pre-approved to ensure package safety, and are also equipped with the latest ups technology to help make package pickup quick and convenient. consumers are kept informed of the status of their package by tracking it on www.ups.com or on the ups mobile application or website. ups my choice , which focuses on the consignee, has transformed the residential delivery experience. receivers can direct the timing and circumstances of their deliveries using their computer, mobile devices or a facebook app. this innovative service is powered by the complex integration of real-time route optimization and other technologies within our delivery network. the global locator on www.ups.com was enhanced to give customers greater and faster access to ups drop-off and pickup locations, including new ups access point sites. the global locator has a new single search field with updated filters, location images, and location-specific promotions. customers can also provide online feedback, e-mail search results, save favorite locations and access recent searches. mobile ups mobile , which includes the mobile website, m.ups.com, and apps for iphone, ipad, android and kindle fire devices, is readily available for most customers at any time. customers can track, ship, find ups locations, manage ups my choice shipments and receive shipment notifications on their mobile devices. the ups mobile apps and website were enhanced so that customers can now convert a rate estimate into a shipment, ship a package without logging in with a my ups id, compare shipping services more easily, select paypal as a payment option, view details on shipping charges and utilize the redesigned global locator. reporting segments and products &amp; services as a global leader in logistics, ups offers a broad range of domestic and export delivery services; the facilitation of international trade; and the deployment of advanced technology to more efficiently manage the world of business. we seek to streamline our customers' shipment processing and integrate critical transportation information into their own business processes, helping them to create supply chain efficiencies, better serve their customers and improve cash flow. 5 global small package ups's global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, small packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. we provide domestic delivery services within 54 countries and export services to more than 220 countries and territories around the world. we handle packages that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth as well as palletized shipments weighing greater than 150 pounds. all of our package services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies. ups handles all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through one global integrated pickup and delivery network. all packages are commingled within our network, except when necessary to meet their specific service commitments. this enables one ups driver to pick up our customers' shipments, for any of our services, at the same scheduled time each day. compared to companies with single service network designs, our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital efficiencies while being more environmentally-friendly. we offer same-day pickup of air and ground packages upon request. customers can schedule pickups for one to five days a week, based on their specific needs. additionally, our wholly-owned and partnered global network offers approximately 150,000 entry points where customers can tender a package to us at a location or time convenient to them. this combined network includes ups drivers who can accept packages provided to them; ups drop boxes; ups access point locations; the ups store locations; authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters; alliance locations; and customer centers attached to ups facilities. some of these locations offer a full array of services including pickup, delivery and packing options, while others are drop-off locations only. we continually look for ways to enhance the customer experience by offering easy access to ups. the growth of online shopping has increased our customers' needs for efficient and reliable returns, resulting in our development of a robust selection of returns services that are available in more than 145 countries. options vary based on customer needs and country, and range from cost-effective solutions such as ups returns, to more-specialized services such as ups returns exchange. ups returns enables shippers to provide their customers with a return shipping label, while ups returns exchange simplifies product exchanges by delivering a replacement item and picking up a return item in the same stop, and assisting with the re-packaging process. we operate one of the largest airlines in the world, with global operations centered at our worldport hub in louisville, kentucky. worldport sort capacity, currently at 416,000 packages per hour, has expanded over the years due to volume growth and a centralization effort. our european air hub is located in cologne, germany, and we maintain asia-pacific air hubs in shanghai, china; shenzhen, china; and hong kong. our regional air hub in canada is located in hamilton, ontario, and our regional air hub for latin america and the caribbean is in miami, florida. in the u.s., worldport is supported by our regional air hubs in columbia, south carolina; dallas, texas; ontario, california; philadelphia, pennsylvania; and rockford, illinois. this network design allows for cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facilities while enabling us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft. our u.s. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous u.s. u.s. domestic package reporting segment ups is a leader in time-definite, money-back guaranteed, small package delivery services. we offer a full spectrum of u.s. domestic guaranteed ground and air package transportation services. depending on the delivery speed needed, customers can select from a range of guaranteed time and day-definite delivery options. customers can select from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. many of these services offer options that enable customers to specify a time-of-day guarantee for their delivery (e.g. by 8:30, 10:30, noon, end of day, etc.). customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service that serves every u.s. business and residential address. ups delivers more ground packages than any other carrier, with nearly 13 million ground packages delivered on time every day in the u.s., most within one to three business days. ups also offers ups surepost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, lightweight residential shipments. ups surepost is a contractual residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the ups ground network with final delivery often provided by the u.s. postal service. 6 as u.s. online sales are estimated to nearly double by 2020, ups invested over $1 billion in facility expansions and equipment modernization to better manage volume growth throughout the year, and to ensure a successful peak season in 2014 and beyond. other significant improvements to effectively manage seasonal volume fluctuations included: enhancing cyber week operations in the u.s., including full ground and air pickup and delivery operations on black friday. using additional aircraft and regional air hubs to add significant capacity to ups's air network during critical periods. automating facilities to expand our existing capabilities through enhanced technology. adding new delivery vehicles and trailers, and increasing staffing to improve efficiency in all areas. updating www.ups.com and expanding ups communications to enhance the timeliness and relevance of alerts when service disruptions occur. our significant investments in network capacity improvements and enhanced shipment visibility demonstrate our readiness to provide exceptional service and peace of mind to our customers. international package reporting segment our international package reporting segment includes the small package operations in europe, asia, canada and latin america, the indian sub-continent, the middle east and africa. ups offers a wide selection of guaranteed day and time-definite international shipping services. we offer three guaranteed time-definite express options (express plus, express and express saver) to more locations than any other carrier. in 2013, we introduced ups worldwide express freight for palletized shipments over 150 pounds. in early 2015, this service was enhanced to include 50 origins and 51 destinations, helping ups customers to expand the footprint of their palletized shipments to major markets throughout the world. ups worldwide express freight leverages our unique combination of package and freight networks to provide industry leading transit times with a money-back guarantee. for international shipments that do not require express services, ups worldwide expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option. in 2013, we tripled the coverage area for ups worldwide expedited, providing delivery in two-to-five business days to more than 220 countries and territories. we continue to expand our origin footprint for this service moving to over 80 origins in 2015. this expansion will help ups customers magnify their global reach and balance delivery speed with cost, no matter where they ship. for cross-border ground package delivery, we offer ups transborder standard delivery services within europe, between the u.s. and canada and between the u.s. and mexico. europe, our largest region outside of the u.s., accounts for roughly half of international revenue and is one of the primary drivers of our growth. several factors provide significant opportunities, including the highly fragmented nature of the market and the fact that exports make up a significant part of europe's gdp. we believe there is a continued strong potential for growth in small package exports in germany, the u.k., france, italy, spain and the netherlands. to accommodate this growth, we expanded our main european air hub in cologne, germany in the first quarter of 2014; increasing capacity to process 190,000 packages per hour. asia remains attractive due to growth rates in intra-asia trade and the expanding chinese economy. we are bringing faster time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-asia trade, and reducing transit days from asia to europe. through added flight frequencies, we provide our customers the ability to ship next day to more places in europe, guaranteed, than any other express carrier. we are continuing to build our presence in china through the expansion of our service capabilities, investing in our transportation network and strengthening brand awareness. during 2014 we opened a new trans pacific air hub at taiwan taoyuan international airport, marking a 40% increase in size from the previous hub and increasing connectivity from taiwan to key markets in the u.s. and europe. additionally, we serve more than 40 asia-pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances with local delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations. additional international highlights include the following: in south and central america, we benefit from a strong regional economy. our offerings include express package delivery in major cities as well as distribution and forwarding services. we continue to expand our network in brazil, with plans to open nine new operating facilities strategically located in the state of sao paolo, set to be completed in may 2015. this enhancement will increase territorial coverage by 78% and improve time in transit throughout this key market. 7 we continue to grow our business organically in mexico. we are well positioned with freight, domestic, international and distribution services. in 2014, we opened six new ups express centers strategically located across mexico, including mexico city, state of m xico, jalisco and quintana roo. these new centers are aimed at increasing our presence among small and medium enterprises and the retail sector. in february 2012, we broadened our european business-to-consumer service portfolio by acquiring kiala s.a., a belgium-based developer of a platform that enables e-commerce retailers to offer consumers the option of having goods delivered to a convenient retail location. kiala was rebranded as ups access point in the ups portfolio of services. in 2014, we had nearly 14,000 access points in europe after adding poland and italy to the existing seven countries that include belgium, germany, france, the uk, luxembourg, spain, and the netherlands. there are also more than 700 access points in canada, and in 2014 we added mexico to the network. we expect to expand to over 20,000 locations throughout europe and the americas by the end of 2015. during 2014, ups mychoice was expanded to 15 additional countries and territories: canada, austria, belgium, denmark, france, germany, italy, mexico, the netherlands, poland, puerto rico, spain, sweden, switzerland and the united kingdom. supply chain &amp; freight reporting segment the supply chain &amp; freight segment consists of our forwarding and logistics services, our ups freight business, and our financial offerings through ups capital. supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with financial and information services. we meet this demand by offering a broad array of supply chain services in over 195 countries and territories. we have continued to acquire healthcare logistics companies to expand our transportation and distribution networks in europe. in february 2014, we acquired polar speed distribution limited, a u.k.-based healthcare transportation provider specializing in refrigerated ground transportation of temperature-sensitive medicines and medical devices. in december 2014, we announced the acquisition of poltraf sp. z o.o., a polish-based healthcare logistics company that provides direct distribution and compliant logistics services to pharmaceutical and medical device customers in the fast-growing healthcare markets of central and eastern europe (this acquisition is expected to close in the first half of 2015). both of these acquisitions are part of our ongoing global growth and investment strategy. in 2014, we also expanded our global logistics network by more than two million square feet, including 1.5 million square feet in north america. we added contract logistics facilities in key markets including brazil, chile, netherlands and china (beijing). our continued investment in china brings the total to more than 130 owned and agent contract logistics facilities, covering 87 cities. these facilities provide distribution and warehousing solutions to shippers who want to reach customers within china and demonstrate our continued commitment to serving china's emerging middle class. we broadened our north american health care service offering by developing a healthcare-compliant network of 36 field stocking locations ("fsls"). this capability helps companies quickly send medical devices to hospitals and care facilities, while better managing inventory costs, regulatory compliance requirements, and end-to-end visibility of shipments. freight forwarding ups is one of the largest u.s. domestic air freight carriers and among the top international air freight forwarders globally. ups offers a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. additionally, as one of the world's leading non-vessel operating common carriers, ups also provides ocean freight full-container load and less-than-container load transportation services between most major ports around the world. customs brokerage ups is among the world's largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees worldwide. we provide our customers with customs clearance, trade management and international trade consulting services. in 2014, ups expanded its brokerage capabilities in costa rica through the integration of the 2013 acquisition of seisa brokerage. logistics and distribution ups logistics offers the following services: distribution services: our comprehensive distribution services are provided through a global network of distribution centers that manage the flow of goods from receiving to storage and order processing to shipment. ups also provides specialized services to streamline supply chains in the healthcare, high tech, retail, industrial manufacturing and aerospace industries. together, these services allow companies to save time and money by minimizing capital investment and positioning products closer to their customers. 8 post sales: post sales services support goods after they have been delivered or installed in the field. the four core service offerings within post sales include: (1) critical parts fulfillment; (2) reverse logistics; (3) test, repair, and refurbish and (4) network and parts planning. we leverage our global distribution network of over 950 fsls to ensure that the right type and quantity of our customers' stock is in the right location to meet the needs of their end-customers. this solution allows our customers to maximize service to their end-customers while reducing costs. ups mail innovations: ups mail innovations offers an efficient, cost-effective method for sending lightweight parcels and flat mail to global addresses from the u.s. we pick up customers' domestic and international mail, and then sort, post, manifest and expedite the secured mail containers to the destination postal service for last-mile delivery. ups express critical: ups express critical provides a broad range of urgent transportation options ranging from lightweight to heavyweight shipments around the world. our experienced team can quickly assess a critical situation, identify transportation alternatives and implement delivery solutions that meets customers' time and cost requirements. ups freight ups freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload ( ltl ) services, as well as full truckload services, in all 50 states, canada, puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands and mexico. ups freight provides reliable ltl service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. additionally, many user-friendly small package technology offerings are available for freight including: ups worldship; billing center and quantum view. these technology systems allow customers to process and track ltl shipments, create electronic bills of lading and reconcile billing. ups capital by leveraging more than 107 years of transportation and global supply chain expertise, ups capital, a subsidiary of ups, provides insurance, financing and payment services that are unique, relevant and competitive. ups capital helps companies protect themselves from risk, improve cash flow, and accelerate and protect payments. ups is the only logistics company in the world that offers this breadth of in-house financial and insurance solutions, providing customers with a single source for all of their logistics needs. sustainability ups's business and corporate responsibility strategies pursue a common interest to increase the vitality and environmental sustainability of the global economy by aggregating the shipping activity of millions of businesses and individuals worldwide into a single, highly efficient logistics network. this provides benefits to: ups, by ensuring strong demand for our services. the economy, by making global supply chains more efficient and less expensive. the environment, by enabling our global customers to leverage ups's carbon efficiency and thereby reduce the carbon intensity of their supply chains. communities, by connecting individuals to global markets and providing the economic empowerment that can help facilitate positive social change. we pursue sustainable business practices worldwide through operational efficiency, fleet advances, facility engineering projects and conservation-enabling technology and service offerings. we help our customers do the same. we consider stakeholder engagement an essential aspect of corporate governance and collaborate regularly with a global diverse set of stakeholders on sustainability issues. in addition, we engage stakeholders directly in our sustainability strategy through our corporate materiality assessment process. in 2013, we conducted our second formal assessment, working once again with the non-profit organization business for social responsibility ("bsr") to evaluate significant sustainability issues (economic, environmental and social), and ranked each issue by importance based on multiple stakeholder feedback. our most material sustainability issues primarily involve our energy use, emissions and workplace policies. the full results of the assessment are available at www.ups.com/sustainability . 9 sustainability highlights in 2014 include: one of corporate responsibility's 100 best corporate citizens for the 5th consecutive year. recognized by ethisphere institute as one of the world's most ethical companies for the 8th consecutive year. named to interbrand's best global green brands for the 4th consecutive year. we ranked 28th and were the only company in the transportation sector to make the top 50. recognized as a constituent of the dow jones sustainability north america index for the 10th consecutive year; in addition, we were included on the dow jones sustainability world index for the 2nd consecutive year. recognized as a constituent of the nasdaq omx global sustainability index for the 5th consecutive year. recognized as the top community-minded industrial company by the civic 50. achieved a score of 100% in response to the carbon disclosure project. it is the 4th consecutive year we have achieved a rating at or above 99%. more information on how ups addresses its most significant sustainability issues is available in the ups corporate sustainability report and on the ups sustainability website. community we believe that strong communities are vital to the success of our company. by combining our philanthropy with the volunteer time and talents of our employees, ups helps drive positive change for organizations and communities in need across the globe. the highlights of our corporate citizenship efforts in 2014 include: local non-profits around the world received nearly 1.9 million hours of volunteer service from ups employees participating in our neighbor-to-neighbor program. the ups foundation, which oversees corporate citizenship efforts for the company, invested $104 million in donations of both cash and in-kind services to global causes primarily in four focus areas community safety, environmental sustainability, diversity and volunteerism. ups employees, both active and retired, contributed approximately $52 million to united way in 2014 which was matched by a corporate contribution of $8 million. through the ups foundation we have the opportunity to support our global communities to offset carbon, support clean water, reduce poverty and help individuals sustain their lives through the planting of trees. the ups global forestry initiative, which began in 2013, is the signature program of the ups foundation's environmental focus area. by the end of 2014, we have supported the planting of three million trees worldwide. ups continued to aid communities impacted by disasters through our ups humanitarian relief program, by providing our logistics expertise, skilled volunteers, capacity building support and in-kind services. in 2014, ups coordinated more than 263 humanitarian relief shipments across 43 countries and provided funding and logistics support to strengthen long-term recovery efforts of communities impacted by the ebola epidemic, the syrian refugee crisis and severe weather events in the southern and midwestern regions of the u.s. nearly 6,700 teenagers and novice drivers in the u.s., canada, the u.k., germany and china participated in ups road code. this safety program for new drivers features ups employees as instructors a role where they share driving knowledge and safety tips amassed over our long history of safe driving. reputation great brands require connecting with customers. in working to develop these connections, ups continually receives high accolades from independent brand evaluations. in 2014 , the company ranked 27th on interbrand's best global brands and 16th on millward brown's brandz most valuable global brands. additionally, in forbes' america's most reputable companies 2014, ups ranked 2nd among 150 large publicly-traded us companies rated by the reputation institute. 10 employees the strength of our company is our people, working together with a common purpose. we had approximately 435,000 employees (excluding temporary seasonal employees) as of december 31, 2014 , of which 354,000 are in the u.s. and 81,000 are located internationally. our global workforce includes approximately 75,000 management employees (38% of whom are part-time) and 360,000 hourly employees (47% of whom are part-time). as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately 270,000 employees employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the international brotherhood of teamsters ( teamsters ). during 2014, the teamsters ratified a new national master agreement with ups that will expire on july 31, 2018. we have approximately 2,600 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the independent pilots association ("ipa"), which became amendable at the end of 2011. in february 2014, ups and the ipa requested and received mediation by the national mediation board for the ongoing contract negotiations. our airline mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with teamsters local 2727, which became amendable november 1, 2013. in addition, approximately 3,100 of our auto and maintenance mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the international association of machinists and aerospace workers ( iam ). in 2014, the iam ratified new collective bargaining agreements that will expire on july 31, 2019. the experience of our management team continues to be an organizational strength. nearly 34% of our full-time managers have more than 20 years of service with ups. we believe that our relations with our employees are good. we periodically survey all our employees to determine their level of job satisfaction. areas of concern receive management attention as we strive to keep ups the employer-of-choice among our employees. we consistently receive numerous awards and wide recognition as an employer-of-choice, resulting in part from our emphasis on diversity and corporate citizenship. safety health and safety is a core value at ups and an enduring belief that the well-being of our people, business partners and the public is of utmost importance. we train our people to avoid injury to themselves and others in all aspects of their work. we do not tolerate unsafe work practices. we recognize employees for health, wellness, and safety accomplishments. we provide programs that help promote the health and wellness of employees and their families, and the safety of our operations. we are committed to fostering the most effective safety practices in our work environment. by meeting our high safety standards and goals, we contribute to the well-being of our people, company, and the communities we serve. we use an all-encompassing comprehensive health and safety process ("chsp") to prevent occupational illnesses, injuries and auto crashes, as well as promote wellness through the development of workplace programs. the foundation of this process is our co-chaired employee and management health and safety committees. together they conduct facility and equipment audits, perform work practice and behavior analysis, conduct training and recommend work process and equipment changes. the components of chsp are: personal value. which is the foundation and forms the base of our safety and wellness culture. management commitment and employee involvement - where employees take an active role in their own safety as well as their fellow workers and are supported by management. all operations management commit to providing a work environment that is conducive to the well-being and safety of their employees. work site analysis. which includes injury and auto crash data analysis, behavior observations and facility and equipment audits to identify gaps and develop solutions. our operations managers are responsible for their employees' safety results. we investigate every injury and auto crash and develop prevention activities. hazard prevention and control. where solutions are developed and documented to ensure identified risks have been mitigated. 11 safety education and training. employees who are healthy and well-trained in proper methods are more safe and efficient in performing their jobs. our approach starts with training the trainer. all trainers are certified to ensure that they have the skills and motivation to effectively instruct new employees. all new employees receive safety training during orientation and in the work area. in addition, each new driver receives extensive classroom and online instruction, as well as on-road training. other components to ensure the safety of our people and fleet include: wellness. we have a "five being habits" wellness program that turns health and wellness knowledge into actionable measures. these habits are designed to enable employees and their families to take positive steps toward healthy lifestyles. recognition. we have a well-defined safe driving honor plan to recognize our drivers when they achieve accident-free milestones. we have more than 7,200 drivers enshrined in our coveted circle of honor for drivers who have driven 25 years or more without an avoidable auto crash. preventive maintenance. we have a comprehensive preventive maintenance program to ensure the safety of our fleet. our fleet is managed and monitored electronically to ensure that each vehicle is serviced at a specific time to prevent malfunction or breakdown. competition ups is a global leader in logistics. we offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and, therefore, compete with many different local, regional, national and international carriers. our competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of providers in the supply chain, financial services and information technology industries. competitive strengths our competitive strengths include: global network. we believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. we provide all types of package service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) through a single pickup and delivery service network. we also have extensive air freight, ocean freight, ground freight and logistics networks that provide additional capabilities in the global transportation and logistics market. our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. this unique, integrated global business model creates consistent and superior returns. global presence. ups serves more than 220 countries and territories around the world. we have a significant presence in all of the world's major economies. leading-edge technology. we are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers optimize their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency. technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. our technology offerings are driven by our customers' needs. we offer a variety of online service options that enable our customers to integrate ups functionality into their own businesses not only to send, manage and track their shipments conveniently, but also to provide their customers with better information services. we provide the infrastructure for an internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated ups tools directly into their own websites. broad portfolio of services. our portfolio of services enables customers to choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many ups services in addition to package delivery. for example, our supply chain services such as freight forwarding, customs brokerage, order fulfillment and returns management help improve the efficiency of the supply chain management process. customer relationships. we focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. we serve 1.6 million pickup customers and 8.2 million delivery customers daily. cross-selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for ups. brand equity. we have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service, reliability and product innovation. the distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the professional courtesy of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity. 12 distinctive culture. we believe that the dedication of our employees results in large part from our distinctive employee-owner concept. our employee stock ownership tradition dates from 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees. to facilitate employee stock ownership, we maintain several stock-based compensation programs. our long-standing policy of promotion from within complements our tradition of employee ownership, and this policy reduces the need for us to hire managers and executive officers from outside ups. the majority of our management team began their careers as full-time or part-time hourly ups employees, and have spent their entire careers with us. many of our executive officers have more than 30 years of service with ups and have accumulated a meaningful ownership stake in our company. therefore, our executive officers have a strong incentive to effectively manage ups, which benefits all our shareowners. financial strength. our balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. our financial strength gives us the resources to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and facilities; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; to service our obligations; and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends, share repurchases and steady share growth. government regulation air operations the u.s. department of transportation ( dot ), the federal aviation administration ( faa ), and the u.s. department of homeland security, through the transportation security administration ( tsa ), have regulatory authority over united parcel service co.'s ( ups airlines' ) air transportation services. the federal aviation act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for dot and faa authority and the aviation and transportation security act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for tsa aviation security authority. the dot's authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. the dot also regulates, subject to the authority of the president of the united states, international routes, fares, rates and practices, and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of u.s. air carriers abroad. international operating rights for u.s. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreement between the u.s. and foreign governments. ups airlines has international route operating rights granted by the dot and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. the efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on dot and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions. the faa's authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities, and personnel. in 1988, the faa granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable faa regulations. in addition, we are subject to non-u.s. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-u.s. jurisdictions, and non-u.s. customs regulation. ups aircraft maintenance programs and procedures, including aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals, are approved for all aircraft under faa regulations. the future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional faa regulatory requirements. the tsa regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the tsa mission statement to protect the nation's transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce. ups airlines, and specified airport and off-airport locations, are regulated under tsa regulations applicable to the transportation of cargo in an air network. in addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with tsa regulations. ups airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the civil reserve air fleet ( craf ) program. our participation in the craf program allows the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) to requisition specified ups airlines wide-body aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. the dod compensates us for the use of aircraft under the craf program. in addition, participation in craf entitles ups airlines to bid for military cargo charter operations. 13 ground operations our ground transportation of packages in the u.s. is subject to the dot's and the states' jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of operations, safety, insurance and hazardous materials. we are subject to similar regulation in many non-u.s. jurisdictions. the postal reorganization act of 1970 created the u.s. postal service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the postal rate commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. the postal accountability and enhancement act of 2006 amended the 1970 act to give the re-named postal regulatory commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the postal service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. we sometimes participate in the proceedings before the postal regulatory commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services. customs we are subject to the customs laws in the countries in which we operate, regarding the import and export of shipments, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters. environmental we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. these laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: proper storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous and other waste; managing wastewater and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases; and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. ups has established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. in addition, ups has created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations. other regulations we are subject to numerous other u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, in addition to applicable foreign laws, in connection with our package and non-package businesses in the countries in which we operate. these laws and regulations include those enforced by u.s. customs and border protection and other agencies of the u.s. department of homeland security, the u.s. department of treasury, the federal maritime commission, the u.s. drug enforcement administration, the u.s. food and drug administration and the u.s. department of agriculture. where you can find more information ups maintains a website at www.ups.com . our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available through our website www.investors.ups.com as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the sec. also available on the corporation's website are the company's corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. however, information on these websites is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the sec. 14 we have adopted a written code of business conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. it is available in the governance section of the investor relations website, located at www.investors.ups.com . in the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the code of business conduct that the sec requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our investor relations website. our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available in the governance section of the investor relations website. our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available at www.sustainability.ups.com . we provide the addresses to our internet sites solely for the information of investors. we do not intend for any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this report. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. you should read these risk factors in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in item 8. general economic conditions, both in the u.s. and internationally, may adversely affect our results of operations. we conduct operations in over 220 countries and territories. our u.s. and international operations are subject to normal cycles affecting the economy in general, as well as the local economic environments in which we operate. the factors that create cyclical changes to the economy and to our business are beyond our control, and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model to mitigate the impact of these factors. in particular, our business is affected by levels of industrial production, consumer spending and retail activity, and our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by adverse developments in these aspects of the economy. we face significant competition which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we face significant competition on a local, regional, national and international basis. our competitors include the postal services of the u.s. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. competition may also come from other sources in the future. some of our competitors have cost and organizational structures that differ from ours and may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to competitive pressures, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. the transportation industry continues to consolidate and competition remains strong. as a result of consolidation, our competitors may increase their market share and improve their financial capacity, and may strengthen their competitive positions. business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance. changes in our relationships with our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have an adverse impact on us. no single customer accounts for 10% or more of our consolidated revenue. we do not believe the loss of any single customer would materially impair our overall financial condition or results of operations; however, collectively, some of our large customers might account for a relatively significant portion of the growth in revenue in a particular quarter or year. these customers can drive the growth in revenue for particular services based on factors such as: new customer product launches; the seasonality associated with the fourth quarter holiday season; business mergers and acquisitions; and the overall fast growth of a customer's underlying business. these customers could choose to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, demand pricing concessions for our services, require us to provide enhanced services that increase our costs, or develop their own shipping and distribution capabilities. if these factors drove some of our large customers to cancel all or a portion of their business relationships with us, it could materially impact the growth in our business and the ability to meet our current and long-term financial forecasts. 15 our business is subject to complex and stringent regulation in the u.s. and internationally. we are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment and other governmental laws, regulations and policies, both in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. in addition, our business is impacted by laws, regulations and policies that affect global trade, including tariff and trade policies, export requirements, taxes, monetary policies and other restrictions and charges. changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies cannot be predicted. compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations in the u.s. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. increased security requirements could impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an attack or have a security breach. as a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, governments around the world have adopted or may adopt stricter security requirements that will result in increased operating costs for businesses in the transportation industry. these requirements may change periodically as a result of regulatory and legislative requirements and in response to evolving threats. we cannot determine the effect that these new requirements will have on our cost structure or our operating results, and these rules or other future security requirements may increase our costs of operations and reduce operating efficiencies. regardless of our compliance with security requirements or the steps we take to secure our facilities or fleet, we could be the target of an attack or security breaches could occur, which could adversely affect our operations or our reputation. we may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such a potential change. concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions. for example, in the past several years, the u.s. congress has considered various bills that would regulate ghg emissions. while these bills have not yet received sufficient congressional support for enactment, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. even in the absence of such legislation, the environmental protection agency, spurred by judicial interpretation of the clean air act, may regulate ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. these costs include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or vehicles prematurely. until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. it is reasonably possible that such legislation or regulation could impose material costs on us. moreover, even without such legislation or regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the ghgs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. a significant number of our employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the teamsters. in addition, our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide services. we may face a permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. 16 we are exposed to the effects of changing prices of energy, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities. changing fuel and energy costs may have a significant impact on our operations. we require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. we mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our indexed fuel surcharges and we may also enter into hedging transactions from time to time. if we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could adversely impact our operating results. even if we are able to offset the cost of fuel with our surcharges, high fuel surcharges may result in a mix shift from our higher-yielding air products to lower-yielding ground products or an overall reduction in volume. if fuel prices rise sharply, even if we are successful in increasing our fuel surcharge, we could experience a lag time in implementing the surcharge, which could adversely affect our short-term operating results. there can be no assurance that our hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices. moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies, including our supply of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as a result of war, actions by producers, or other factors beyond our control, which could have an adverse effect on our business. changes in exchange rates or interest rates may have an adverse effect on our results. we conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the united states. our operations in international markets are affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. the impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting our debt is discussed in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk section of this report. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the valuation of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and the related benefit cost recognized in the income statement. the impact of changes in interest rates on our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and costs is discussed further in the "critical accounting policies and estimates" section of this report. we monitor and manage our exposures to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and make use of derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of changes in these rates on our financial position and results of operations; however, changes in exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. if we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the ups brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, environmental concerns, security matters, political activities and the like, or attempts to connect our company to these sorts of issues, either in the united states or other countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and acceptance of our services by customers. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. 17 a significant privacy breach or it system disruption could adversely affect our business and we may be required to increase our spending on data and system security. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. in addition, the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our networks and systems involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. our franchised center locations also are reliant on the use of information technology systems to manage their business processes and activities. our and our franchisees' information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, malicious insiders, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. hackers, acting individually or in coordinated groups, may also launch distributed denial of service attacks or other coordinated attacks that may cause service outages or other interruptions in our business. in addition, breaches in security could expose us, our customers and franchisees, or the individuals affected, to a risk of loss or misuse of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, may be difficult to detect for a long time and often are not recognized until launched against a target. as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any of these occurrences could result in disruptions in our operations, the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, and litigation and potential liability for the company. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data or system protection measures could be significant. in august 2014, a broad-based malware intrusion targeting retailers throughout the u.s. was discovered and subsequently eradicated at approximately 1% of our franchisees' locations. while the impact of this cyber-attack, including the costs associated with investigation and remediation activities, was not material to our business and our financial results, our efforts to deter, identify, mitigate and/or eliminate any future breaches may not be successful. severe weather or other natural or manmade disasters could adversely affect our business. severe weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters, including storms, floods, fires or earthquakes, epidemics or pandemics, or terrorist attacks, conflicts or unrest, may result in decreased revenues, as our customers reduce their shipments, or increased costs to operate our business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for a quarter or year. any such event affecting one of our major facilities could result in a significant interruption in or disruption of our business. we make significant capital investments in our business of which a significant portion is tied to projected volume levels. we require significant capital investments in our business consisting of aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sorting and other types of equipment to support both our existing business and anticipated growth. forecasting projected volume involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty, such as general economic trends, changes in governmental regulation and competition. if we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect our revenues and profitability. in addition to forecasting our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to adverse economic conditions; however, these adjustments may not be sufficient to allow us to maintain our operating margins in a weak economy. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in international markets. we have significant international operations and while the geographical diversity of our international operations helps ensure that we are not overly reliant on a single region or country, we are continually exposed to changing economic, political and social developments beyond our control. emerging markets are typically more volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and commercial customers, and restrict where we can do business, our shipments to certain countries and the information that we can provide to non-u.s. governments. 18 we are subject to changes in markets and our business plans that have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. our regular review of the carrying value of our assets has resulted, from time to time, in significant impairments, and we may in the future be required to recognize additional impairment charges. changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairments of our intangible, fixed or other assets at any time in the future. in addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets are shorter than we originally estimated. such changes could reduce our net income. employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us. with approximately 435,000 employees, including approximately 354,000 in the u.s., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in some of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation and the decreasing trend of discount rates that we use to value our pension liabilities. continued increasing health care costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or require significant contributions to our pension plans. the new national master agreement with the teamsters includes changes that are designed to mitigate certain of these health care expenses, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that the failure or success of these efforts will not adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. we participate in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. as part of the overall collective bargaining process for wage and benefit levels, we have agreed to contribute certain amounts to the multiemployer benefit plans during the contract period. the multiemployer benefit plans set benefit levels and are responsible for benefit delivery to participants. future contribution amounts to multiemployer benefit plans will be determined only through collective bargaining, and we have no additional legal or constructive obligation to increase contributions beyond the agreed-upon amounts (except potential surcharges under the pension protection act of 2006 in the event that a plan enters critical status, and our contributions are not sufficient to satisfy any rehabilitation plan funding schedule). in future collective bargaining negotiations, we could agree to make significantly higher future contributions to improve the funded status of one or more of these plans. the funded status of these multiemployer plans are impacted by various factors, including investment performance, health care inflation, changes in demographics and changes in participant benefit levels. at this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could result from our participation in these plans. we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses and form joint ventures or strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operations, capabilities or technologies and the management of the acquired operations. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate the acquired operations, unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges or charges for impairment of long-term assets that we acquire. 19 insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of the services we provide and the nature of our global operations, including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers' compensation. workers' compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. if the number or severity of claims for which we are retaining risk increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we lose our ability to self-insure these risks, our insurance costs could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. all of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. in order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate forward contracts, options and swaps. a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-a, diesel and unleaded gasoline, as well as changes in the price of natural gas. currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and ltl services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. additionally, we periodically use a combination of option, forward and futures contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 , however, we had no commodity contracts outstanding. foreign currency exchange risk we have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. we are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities and cash flows. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. we use a combination of purchased and written options to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. these derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 24 months. we also utilize forward contracts to hedge portions of our anticipated cash settlements of intercompany transactions subject to foreign currency remeasurement. additionally, we utilize cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge the currency risk inherent in the interest and principal payments associated with foreign currency denominated debt obligations. the terms of these swap agreements are commensurate with the underlying debt obligations. 58 united parcel service, inc. and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations interest rate risk we have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with capital leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. we use a combination of interest rate swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. we also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. our floating rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily libor) interest rates. we also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods. we have investments in debt securities, as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. additionally, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. equity price risk we hold investments in various common equity securities that are subject to price risk. these securities are primarily in the form of equity index funds. sensitivity analysis the following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk embedded in our existing financial instruments. we utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity and equity prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. there are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. while this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. we adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions. shock-test result as of december 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 change in fair value: currency derivatives (1) $ (229 ) $ (291 ) change in annual interest expense: variable rate debt (2) $ 15 $ 7 interest rate derivatives (2) $ 81 $ 101 change in annual interest income: marketable securities (3) $ $ 15 (1) the potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities. (2) the potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances). (3) the potential change in interest income resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate investment holdings. the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in critical accounting policies and estimates . the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our finance receivables due to changes in interest rates was not material as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 . 59risk factors 14 risk factors and may also be described from time to time in our future reports filed with the sec. you should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. item 1. business overview united parcel service, inc. ( ups ) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in seattle, washington. today, we are the world's largest package delivery company, a leader in the u.s. less-than-truckload industry and the premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. we deliver packages each business day for 1.6 million shipping customers to 8.4 million receivers ("consignees") in over 220 countries and territories. in 2015 , we delivered an average of 18.3 million pieces per day, or a total of 4.7 billion packages. total revenue in 2015 was $ 58.4 billion . we are a global leader in logistics, and we create value for our customers through solutions that lower costs, improve service and provide highly customizable supply chain control and visibility. customers are attracted to our broad set of services that are delivered as promised through our integrated ground, air and ocean global network. our overall market strategy is to provide customers with advanced logistics solutions made possible by a broad portfolio of differentiated services and capabilities expertly assembled and integrated into our customers' businesses. this approach, supported by our efficient and globally balanced multimodal network, enables us to deliver considerable value to our customers and thereby build lasting partnerships with them. over the last 15 years, we have significantly expanded the scope of our capabilities to include more than package delivery. our logistics and distribution capabilities give companies the power to easily expand their businesses to new markets around the world. by leveraging our international infrastructure and know-how, ups enables our customers to bridge time zones, cultures and distances to keep their supply chains moving smoothly. in 2015 , we continued our capabilities expansion by acquiring coyote logistics, a leading asset-light truckload broker, and several other specialized businesses. each provides our customers with an ever-expanding range of high value services and expertise, while simultaneously contributing to operational efficiency and positive returns. we serve the global market for logistics services, which include transportation, distribution, contract logistics, ground freight, ocean freight, air freight, customs brokerage, insurance and financing. we have three reportable segments: u.s. domestic package, international package and supply chain &amp; freight, all of which are described below. for financial information concerning our reportable segments and geographic regions, refer to note 12 of our consolidated financial statements. 1 business strategy customers leverage our broad portfolio of logistics capabilities; balanced global presence in north america, europe, middle east, africa, asia pacific and latin america; reliability; industry-leading technologies; and solutions expertise for competitive advantage in markets where they choose to compete. we prudently invest to expand our integrated global network and service portfolio. technology investments create user-friendly shipping, e-commerce, logistics management and visibility tools for our customers, while supporting our ongoing effort to increase operational efficiencies. we actively monitor and invest to gain insights into emerging technologies such as additive manufacturing (3d printing), route and network optimization tools, and advanced product monitoring and tracking functionality. our service portfolio and investments are rewarded with among the best return on invested capital and operating margins in the industry. we have a long history of sound financial management and our consolidated balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. cash generation is a significant strength of ups, giving us strong capacity to service our obligations and allowing for distributions to shareowners, reinvestment in our business and the pursuit of growth opportunities. we enable and are the beneficiaries of the following trends: expansion of global trade we continue to invest to expand in both developed and emerging international markets. in europe, we have committed to nearly $2 billion of capital to expand our infrastructure to meet the growing demand for cross-border commerce. the enhancements to our european ground network are designed to ensure that we provide fast, reliable service to high-value customers moving goods across country borders. emerging market opportunities continue to expand. over the next ten years, these markets are expected to represent the majority of global gdp growth and an increasing proportion of global trade. emerging markets are an understandable focus of investment and growth for our current customers and will be a source of our next generation of customers. to take advantage of these opportunities, we continue to make long-term investments in markets where our customers choose to grow. over the past ten years, we have established a strong market presence in three leading emerging markets: china, poland and turkey. the middle east, latin america, africa and eastern europe are also becoming increasingly important to us. transcontinental and trade across borders are predicted to grow faster than u.s. and global gross domestic production for the foreseeable future. as a result, u.s. and international economies are becoming more inter-connected and dependent on foreign trade. ups plays an important role in global trade and is well positioned to take advantage of trade growth, wherever it occurs. our global presence and productivity enhancing technologies allow customers to expand into new markets. we advocate the expansion of free trade, including the passage of regional trade pacts and the removal of trade barriers. the 2015 trans-pacific partnership agreement will connect 12 global economies and 800 million consumers across the americas and the asia-pacific regions. we believe free trade is a catalyst for job creation, economic growth and improved living standards. these trends underscore why we believe our international business is a catalyst for our future growth. e-commerce growth in retail sectors throughout much of the world, e-commerce growth continues to outpace traditional lines of business. our integrated network puts us in an ideal position to capitalize on the shift towards residential deliveries. we continue to create new services, supported by our technology, that complement the traditional ups premium home delivery service and address the needs of e-commerce shippers and consignees. our offerings span a broad spectrum that supports retailers across their value chains, from global sourcing to distribution and returns. we offer cost-effective solutions such as ups surepost, for u.s. domestic shipments and ups i-parcel for a low-cost deferred cross border solution, where economy takes precedence over speed. we also offer feature-rich solutions, such as ups my choice, a service that provides receivers with visibility and control of their inbound shipments. 2 ups my choice keeps 22 million members up-to-date on their parcels' delivery status through proactive alerts and offers flexible delivery options to control when and where these deliveries are made. following on the success of ups my choice in the u.s., we expanded the service to 15 additional countries and territories in the americas and europe regions. with ups my choice, receivers may adjust the timing and location of their deliveries to obtain delivery on the first attempt. we strive to give our customers the best delivery experience in the industry and we intend to continue to expand the service in new markets in conjunction with the growing ups access point network. ups my choice members have the added flexibility to direct packages to ups access point locations when they will not be home to accept a delivery. ups access point locations are convenient places such as the the ups store and other local businesses that offer easy package drop-off and pickup. with evening and weekend hours, ups access point locations better fit consumers' schedules. merchants in nearly 50 origin countries and territories can ship directly to ups access point locations in 12 destination countries, giving merchants and consumers greater control over package deliveries. at the end of 2015, we had more than 23,000 locations worldwide. in 2016, we plan to continue our expansion of ups access point locations. this move enhances our cross-border e-commerce offerings for merchants, while increasing choice for their customers, who can opt to pick up and drop off parcels at retail locations that are convenient to them. industry-focused solutions and offerings we offer differentiated value propositions in several segments, including aerospace, automotive, industrial manufacturing, retail, professional and consumer services, healthcare and high-tech. our industry-specific solutions are increasingly tailored to align with customer needs in each of these sectors. staying abreast of industry trends positions us to anticipate business challenges in each industry. we deepen our understanding by studying these challenges and engaging with customers at the strategic planning stage. we then align our logistics expertise to address these business challenges to help our customers compete. our understanding of how macro and industry trends impact the stakeholders in each market allows us to develop commercial insights for our customers. these insights are incorporated into our sales and solutions process and are shared with customers through direct engagement, industry forums, and publications. we help customers achieve their business objectives and improve their performance through our value-added solutions. demographic trends support growth in healthcare: an aging global population, a rising middle class and rapid urbanization are catalysts for chronic disease growth. the combination of rising global demand for healthcare, new product innovations, increasing regulatory demands and downward pressure on reimbursement is creating both opportunities and challenges for healthcare and life sciences firms. in today's environment, healthcare logistics executives are most concerned with regulatory compliance, product security, supply chain cost management and product damage/spoilage. to address these challenges, more healthcare and life sciences companies are relying on partnerships with third party logistics providers to gain regulatory and trade management expertise, leverage scalable access to healthcare compliant infrastructure and to ensure product integrity through validated temperature and time-sensitive transportation solutions. rapid technology innovation and growing worldwide demand for electronics are driving change in the already-dynamic high-tech industry. as the technology marketplace becomes more complex, high-tech companies are optimizing their supply chains to remain competitive. every year, product life cycles are getting shorter, dictating the need for high-tech companies to better predict demand and understand their logistics requirements. increasingly, they are looking to third party logistics providers for support in product launches, distribution, post-sales support and reverse logistics. we have the experience these companies need, as well as a global transportation network and integrated technology solutions that can generate supply chain efficiency. this means high-tech companies can get their products to market faster, improve customer service and boost revenue. we offer global sourcing and a significant amount of repair space to leverage one of the largest networks of post-sales facilities in the world. with more than 950 field stocking locations in over 110 countries, we help high-tech companies identify better ways to manage inventories and meet their crucial logistics needs. our experience and global capabilities make us a strong partner in the high-tech industry. we are expanding our presence in the aerospace industry. the precise requirements of this industry's manufacturing, assembly and post-sales fit well within our service portfolio. in each of our focus industries, our aim is to increase the number of customers using logistics capabilities across our portfolio. 3 logistics outsourcing outsourcing supply chain management is becoming more prevalent, as customers increasingly view professional management and operation of their supply chains as a strategic advantage. this trend enables companies to focus on what they do best. we can meet our customers' needs for outsourced logistics with our global capabilities in customized forwarding, transportation, warehousing, distribution, delivery and post-sales services. as we move deeper into customers' supply chains, we do so with a shared vision on how to best equip our customers with transportation and logistics solutions to better serve their customers. technology technology powers logistics, forms the foundation of our reliability and allows us to enhance the customer experience. technology delivers value to our customers and returns to our shareowners. recent developments that improve our operational efficiency, flexibility, reliability and customer experience include: continued rollout of telematics to our international delivery fleet to complement our telematics-enabled u.s. small package, freight forwarding and freight ground fleets. by the end of 2015, telematics was installed in close to 83,000 vehicles. telematics helps ups determine a truck's performance and condition by capturing data on more than 200 related elements, including speed, rpm, oil pressure, seat belt use, number of times the vehicle is placed in reverse and idling time. together, improved data and driver coaching help reduce fuel consumption, emissions and maintenance costs while improving driver safety. additionally, customers experience more consistent pickup times and more reliable deliveries, thereby enhancing their profitability and competitiveness. expanded implementation of our on road integrated optimization and navigation system (orion), which employs advanced algorithms to determine the optimal route for each delivery, while meeting service commitments. by the end of 2015, orion was deployed to over 40,000 drivers. accelerated installations of our next generation small sort (ngss) technology, which reduces the amount of memorization required to sort a package, thereby improving productivity and quality. employees sort packages to bins tagged with flashing lights, rather than memorizing addresses, allowing us to dramatically reduce training time. ngss has been deployed in about 300 sites globally. we bring industry-leading ups technology to our customers who, in turn, realize increased productivity, greater control of their supply chains and improved customer experience when they integrate with our systems. customers benefit through offerings such as: shipping worldship , which is our flagship desktop shipping application, provides middle market and large customers with robust shipping capabilities. customers can create custom labels, set up shipment alerts, create and upload customs documentation, track and export shipments, create reports and integrate with their enterprise resource planning and accounting systems to streamline shipping with real-time connectivity. ups marketplace shipping, which integrates www.ups.com with ebay and amazon , allows marketplace sellers to easily ship their orders via www.ups.com or worldship. ups marketplace shipping provides simplified shipment processing; multiple payment options, including paypal ; order and shipment history; and automatic tracking updates. tracking and visibility ups quantum view can help customers better manage shipments, facilitate tracking, allow for inbound volume planning, manage third-party shipping costs and automatically notify customers of incoming shipments. with visibility into transit times and delivery confirmations, customers can speed up their revenue cycle and collect accounts receivables more quickly while improving customer service. international trade tools ups paperless solutions allow customers to self-enroll in ups paperless invoice and upload shipping documents. these solutions enable customers to electronically transmit a commercial invoice, packing list or their own customs documents when shipping internationally. this eliminates redundant data entry and errors, while reducing customs delays and paper waste. ups tradeability tools help customers effectively and confidently manage the movement of goods internationally in a timely, efficient and compliant manner. 4 billing the ups billing center, a secure location for customers to view, download, manage and pay their ups invoices, helps customers accelerate billing and payment processes. customers can assign privileges with administrative controls, manage multiple accounts and create custom reports using a single simple interface. integration the ups developer kit, which is comprised of multiple application programming interfaces (apis), helps customers streamline and automate their internal business processes. the ups developer kit apis allow customers to integrate a wide range of ups functionality into their business systems and websites such as address validation, shipment scheduling, selection of shipping service levels, tracking and much more. business-to-consumer we selectively choose ups access point locations that meet our business standards and ensure the safety of our customers' packages. then, we equip each one with the latest ups technology to help make package pickup quick and convenient. consumers can track their packages on www.ups.com , m.ups.com or the ups mobile app to know when their packages are ready for pickup. ups my choice , which focuses on the consignee, has transformed the residential delivery experience. receivers can direct the timing and circumstances of their deliveries using their computer, mobile devices or facebook app. this innovative service is powered by the complex integration of real-time route optimization and other technologies within our delivery network. the global locator on www.ups.com was enhanced to give customers faster and simpler access to ups drop-off and pickup locations, including new ups access point sites. the global locator has a new single search field with updated filters, location images and location-specific promotions. customers can also provide online feedback, e-mail search results, save favorite locations and access recent searches. mobile ups mobile, which includes the mobile website, m.ups.com , and apps for iphone , ipad and android devices, is readily available for our customers in over 80 countries. customers can track, ship, find ups locations, manage ups my choice shipments and receive shipment notifications on their mobile devices. the ups mobile apps and website were enhanced so that customers can now convert a rate estimate into a shipment, ship a package without logging in, compare shipping services more easily, select paypal as a payment option, view details on shipping charges and utilize the redesigned global locator. reporting segments and products &amp; services as a global leader in logistics, we offer a broad range of domestic and export delivery services; the facilitation of international trade; and the deployment of advanced technologies to more efficiently manage the world of business. we seek to streamline our customers' shipment processing and integrate critical transportation information into their own business processes, helping them to create supply chain efficiencies, better serve their customers and improve cash flow. global small package our global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, small packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. we serve more than 220 countries and territories around the world along with domestic delivery service within 54 countries. we handle packages that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth as well as palletized shipments weighing more than 150 pounds. all of our package services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies. we handle all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through one global integrated pickup and delivery network. all packages are commingled within our network, except when necessary to meet their specific service commitments. this enables one ups driver to pick up customers' shipments for any of our services at the same scheduled time each day. compared to companies with single service network designs, our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital efficiencies while being more environmentally-friendly. 5 we offer same-day pickup of air and ground packages upon request. customers can schedule pickups for one to five days a week, based on their specific needs. additionally, our wholly-owned and partnered global network offers more than 150,000 entry points where customers can tender a package to us at a location or time convenient to them. this combined network includes ups drivers who can accept packages provided to them; ups drop boxes; ups access point locations; the ups store locations; authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters; alliance locations; and customer centers attached to ups facilities. some of these locations offer a full array of services including pickup, delivery and packing options, while others are drop-off locations only. we continually look for ways to enhance the customer experience by offering easy access to ups. the growth of online shopping has increased our customers' needs for efficient and reliable returns, resulting in our development of a robust selection of returns services that are available in more than 145 countries. options vary based on customer needs and country, and range from cost-effective solutions such as ups returns, to more-specialized services such as ups returns exchange. ups returns enables shippers to provide their customers with a return shipping label, while ups returns exchange simplifies product exchanges by delivering a replacement item and picking up a return item in the same stop, and assisting with the re-packaging process. we operate one of the largest airlines in the world, with global operations centered at our worldport hub in louisville, kentucky. worldport sort capacity, currently at 416,000 packages per hour, has expanded over the years due to volume growth and a centralization effort. our european air hub is located in cologne, germany, and we maintain asia-pacific air hubs in shanghai, china; shenzhen, china; and hong kong. our regional air hub in canada is located in hamilton, ontario, and our regional air hub for latin america and the caribbean is in miami, florida. in the u.s., worldport is supported by our regional air hubs in columbia, south carolina; dallas, texas; ontario, california; philadelphia, pennsylvania; and rockford, illinois. this network design allows for cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facilities, which allow us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft. our u.s. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous u.s. u.s. domestic package reporting segment we are a leader in time-definite, money-back guaranteed, small package delivery services in the u.s. we offer a full spectrum of u.s. domestic guaranteed ground and air package transportation services. depending on the delivery speed needed, customers can select from a range of guaranteed time and day-definite delivery options. customers can select from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. many of these services offer options that enable customers to specify a time-of-day guarantee for their delivery (e.g., by 8:00 am, 10:30 am, noon, end of day, etc.). in 2015, we expanded ups next day air early (previously known as "ups next day air early am") service to over 4,000 additional zip codes where previously only an end-of-day guarantee was available. this enhancement provides shippers and their customers the option of an earlier first-of-day delivery with commit times from 8:00 am to 2:00 pm and enlarged our early delivery coverage. with this expansion, more of our customers can get critical shipments delivered earlier, across the u.s. and from around the world. customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service that serves every u.s. business and residential address. we deliver more ground packages than any other carrier, with average daily package volume of 13 million in the u.s., most within one to three business days. we also offer ups surepost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, lightweight residential shipments. ups surepost is a contractual residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the ups ground network with final delivery often provided by the u.s. postal service. growth in u.s. online sales, which are estimated to nearly double by 2020, is driving significant growth in package delivery volume, with a large seasonal spike during peak season beginning at thanksgiving and lasting through christmas. in order to meet the demand and ensure successful peak season operations, we have invested over $1 billion in facility expansions and equipment modernization since 2014. we continue to make other improvements to effectively manage the seasonal volume fluctuations associated with peak season: enhancing cyber week operations in the u.s. including ground and air pickup and delivery operations on black friday. adding weekend pickup, sort, and delivery operations as needed in the u.s. to smooth out geographical spikes in volume. utilizing additional aircraft and regional air hubs to add significant capacity to our air network during critical periods. adding new delivery vehicles and trailers to our fleet of 100,000 package cars, vans, tractors, trailers and other vehicles. 6 automating facilities to expand our existing capabilities through enhanced technology. updating www.ups.com and expanding ups communications to enhance the timeliness and relevance of alerts when service disruptions occur. international package reporting segment our international package reporting segment includes the small package operations in europe, asia-pacific, canada and latin america, the indian sub-continent and the middle east and africa. we offer a wide selection of guaranteed day and time-definite international shipping services. we offer more guaranteed time-definite express options (express plus, express and express saver) than any other carrier. in 2015, we undertook the largest one-time expansion in the history of ups worldwide express service by adding coverage to more than 41,000 new postal codes around the world, creating earlier guaranteed-delivery options for customers that previously had only end-of-day guarantees. ups worldwide express service offers guaranteed delivery on the next possible business day by 10:30 am, noon or 2:00 pm, depending on the destination, and is available in 65 countries. we will continue this expansion in 2016, with plans to add ups worldwide express service to additional countries and postal codes. for international shipments that do not require express services, ups worldwide expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option. in 2013, we tripled the coverage area for ups worldwide expedited, providing delivery in two-to-five business days to more than 220 countries and territories. we expanded our origin footprint for this service in 2015 by adding two new countries, bringing the total origins to more than 80. this expansion helps our customers magnify their global reach and balance delivery speed with cost, no matter where they ship. for cross-border ground package delivery, we offer ups transborder (express, expedited and standard) delivery services within europe, between the u.s. and canada and between the u.s. and mexico. in 2013, we introduced ups worldwide express freight for palletized shipments over 150 pounds. this service was enhanced to include a total of 58 origins and 56 destinations in 2015, enabling our customers to send their palletized shipments to more markets throughout the world. more expansion is planned for 2016 with additional origin and destination countries. ups worldwide express freight leverages our unique combination of package and freight networks to provide industry leading transit times with a money-back guarantee. europe, our largest region outside of the u.s., accounts for approximately half of international revenue and is one of the primary drivers of our growth. several characteristics of the european market provide us with opportunities, including its highly fragmented nature and the fact that exports make up a significant part of europe's gdp. to accommodate the strong potential for growth in small package exports, we expanded our facility at nuremberg, germany in the second quarter of 2015, doubling the sorting capacity to 30,000 packages per hour. asia-pacific remains a strategic market due to growth rates in intra-asia trade, the expanding chinese economy, and the trade opportunities created by the trans-pacific partnership agreement. to capitalize on these opportunities, we are bringing faster time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-asia trade, and reducing transit days from asia to the u.s. and europe. through added flight frequencies, we provide our customers the ability to ship next day to more places in the u.s. and europe, guaranteed, than any other express carrier. we continue to build our presence in china through the expansion of our service capabilities, investing in our transportation network and strengthening brand awareness across 13 cities. additional international highlights include the following: we expanded the international special commodities program in 2015 with the addition of seven destination countries. customers can now ship biological substances, dry ice and dangerous goods to and from more than 50 countries around the world. during 2015, we added trade management services to the ups customs brokerage portfolio in asia to facilitate customers' expansion opportunities. these services include: trade consulting, import/export technologies and managed services. by the end of 2015, we expanded the ups access point network coverage to over 15,000 locations across 11 countries including canada and mexico (u.s. locations excluded). we plan to further expand the ups access point network to new countries in 2016. we increased the availability of the ups mobile app for apple iphone and android devices to ten additional countries in 2015, for a total of 16 countries. the ups mobile app is now available in austria, belgium, canada, 7 denmark, france, germany, italy, mexico, netherlands, poland, puerto rico, spain, sweden, switzerland, the united kingdom and the united states. the ups mobile app includes on-the-go access to ups my choice , which now has over 22 million members around the world. supply chain &amp; freight reporting segment the supply chain &amp; freight reporting segment consists of our forwarding and logistics services, truckload freight brokerage, ups freight and our financial offerings through ups capital. supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution, and international trade and brokerage services, with complementary financial and information services. we meet this demand by offering a broad array of supply chain services in over 195 countries and territories. in 2015, we continued to invest in our global logistics network by adding an additional two million square feet of warehouse space in the united states, canada and western europe. this follows our 2014 facility expansions in several key emerging markets including brazil and china where the demand for outsourced value-added warehousing and logistics services continues to grow. freight forwarding we are one of the largest u.s. domestic air freight carriers and among the top international air freight forwarders globally. we offer a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. additionally, as one of the world's leading non-vessel operating common carriers, we also provide ocean freight full-container load, less-than-container load and multi-modal transportation services between most major ports around the world. truckload freight brokerage (coyote) in 2015, we acquired coyote logistics, a u.s.-based truckload freight brokerage company. the acquisition added large scale truckload freight brokerage and other transportation management services to our supply chain &amp; freight reporting segment. in addition, we expect to benefit from synergies in purchased transportation, backhaul utilization, cross-selling to customers, as well as technology systems and industry best practices. logistics and distribution ups logistics offers the following services: distribution services: our comprehensive distribution services are provided through a global network of distribution centers that manage the flow of goods from receiving to storage and order processing to shipment. we also provide specialized services to streamline supply chains in the healthcare, high tech, retail, industrial manufacturing and aerospace industries. together, these services allow companies to save time and money by minimizing capital investment and positioning products closer to their customers. post sales: post sales services support goods after they have been delivered or installed in the field. the four core service offerings within post sales include: (1) critical parts fulfillment; (2) reverse logistics; (3) test, repair, and refurbish and (4) network and parts planning. we leverage our global distribution network of over 950 field stocking locations to ensure that the right type and quantity of our customers' stock is in the right locations to meet the needs of their end-customers. these solutions allow our customers to maximize service to their end-customers while reducing costs. ups mail innovations: ups mail innovations offers an efficient, cost-effective method for sending lightweight parcels and flat mail to global addresses from the u.s. we pick up customers' domestic and international mail, and then sort, post, manifest and expedite the secured mail containers to the destination postal service for last-mile delivery. in 2015, we launched ups mail innovations returns, an easy-to-use postal solution that combines the convenience of mailbox drop-off with the best-in-class speed, reliability and tracking of the ups mail innovations network. consumers can use their mailboxes to return lightweight parcels and the packages will flow through the ups mail innovations network for delivery back to the shippers. ups mail innovations returns rounds out the industry-leading ups returns portfolio by giving consumers convenient postal access for returning lightweight shipments. ups express critical: ups express critical provides a broad range of urgent global transportation options designed to complement ups's core services and fill the gaps for late cut-offs, weekends and holidays. ups express critical expanded its capabilities into mexico in 2015. the initial time-critical service solutions offered for volume between the u.s. and mexico as well as intra-mexico are next flight out, charter, hand carry and surface for lightweight to heavyweight shipments. 8 ups freight ups freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload ("ltl") services, as well as full truckload services, in all 50 states, canada, puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands and mexico. ups freight provides reliable ltl service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. additionally, many user-friendly small package technology offerings are available for freight including: ups worldship; billing center and quantum view; these systems allow freight customers to process and track ltl shipments, create electronic bills of lading and reconcile billing. customs brokerage we are among the world's largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees worldwide. we provide our customers with customs clearance, trade management and international trade consulting services. ups capital ups capital provides financial, insurance, and payment services to help protect companies from risk and leverage cash in their supply chains. with services available in over 20 countries, ups capital and its affiliates support all aspects of the order-to-cash cycle, including financing inventory warehoused overseas, insuring shipments and providing payment solutions. the ups capital suite of customizable cargo and credit insurance, trade finance and payment solutions is designed to help customers protect their assets and keep their businesses running smoothly. with the recent acquisitions of parcel pro and the insured parcel services business of g4s international logistics, ups capital now offers services and insurance coverage for the transport of high value luxury goods. sustainability our business and corporate responsibility strategies pursue a common interest to increase the vitality and environmental sustainability of the global economy by aggregating the shipping activity of millions of businesses and individuals worldwide into a single, highly efficient logistics network. this provides benefits to: ups, by ensuring strong demand for our services. the economy, by enabling global commerce and making global supply chains more efficient and less expensive. the environment, by enabling our global customers to leverage ups's network efficiency and thereby reduce the greenhouse gas emissions intensity of their supply chains. communities, by connecting individuals to global markets and providing the economic empowerment that can help facilitate positive social change. we pursue sustainable business practices worldwide through operational efficiency, fleet and fuel advances, facility engineering projects and conservation-enabling technology and service offerings. we help our customers do the same. we consider stakeholder engagement an essential aspect of corporate governance and regularly collaborate with a diverse set of global stakeholders on sustainability issues. our most material global sustainability issues primarily involve our energy use, emissions and workplace policies. the full results of the global assessment are available at www.ups.com/sustainability . sustainability highlights in 2015 include: one of corporate responsibility's 100 best corporate citizens for the 6th consecutive year. recognized by ethisphere institute as one of the world's most ethical companies for the 9th consecutive year. recognized as a constituent of the dow jones sustainability north america index for the 11th consecutive year; in addition, we were included on the dow jones sustainability world index for the 3rd consecutive year. recognized as a constituent of the nasdaq omx global sustainability index for the 6th consecutive year. achieved a disclosure score of 100% in response to the carbon disclosure project. it is the 5th consecutive year we have achieved a rating at or above 99%. received a climate leadership award for excellence in greenhouse gas management from the u.s. environmental protection agency. more information on how we address our most significant sustainability issues is available in the ups corporate sustainability report and on the ups sustainability website. 9 community we believe that strong communities are vital to the success of our company. by combining our philanthropy with the volunteer time and talents of our employees, we help drive positive change for organizations and communities in need across the globe. the highlights of our corporate citizenship efforts in 2015 include: local non-profits around the world received nearly 2.35 million hours of volunteer service from our employees participating in our neighbor-to-neighbor program. the ups foundation, which oversees corporate citizenship efforts for the company, invested $111 million in donations of both cash and in-kind services to global causes primarily in four focus areas community safety, environmental sustainability, diversity and volunteerism. our employees, both active and retired, contributed approximately $55 million to united way which was matched by a corporate contribution of $8 million. through the ups foundation we have the opportunity to support our global communities to offset carbon, support clean water, reduce poverty and help individuals sustain their lives through the planting of trees. the ups global forestry initiative, which began in 2013, is the signature program of the ups foundation's environmental focus area. by the end of 2015, we have supported the planting of five million trees worldwide. we continued to aid communities impacted by disasters through our ups humanitarian relief and resilience program, by providing our logistics expertise, skilled volunteers, capacity building support and in-kind services. in 2015, we coordinated more than 350 humanitarian relief shipments across 50 countries and provided funding and logistics support to strengthen long-term recovery efforts of communities impacted by the ebola crisis, the syrian refugee crisis and the nepal earthquake. nearly 6,700 teenagers and novice drivers in the u.s., canada, the u.k., germany and china participated in ups road code. this safety program for new drivers features our employees as instructors a role where they share driving knowledge and safety tips amassed over our long history of safe driving. reputation great brands require connecting with customers, investors and other stakeholders with honesty and transparency. in working to develop these connections, we regularly receive high accolades from independent brand and reputation evaluations. in 2015 , we continued to be ranked highly by the following: forbes' 2015 ranking of america's most reputable companies, as rated by the reputation institute, interbrand's best global brands, millward brown's brandz most valuable global brands and rittenhouse rankings' annual ceo candor and culture survey. employees the strength of our company is our people, working together with a common purpose. we had approximately 444,000 employees (excluding temporary seasonal employees) as of december 31, 2015 , of which 362,000 are in the u.s. and 82,000 are located internationally. our global workforce includes approximately 76,000 management employees (38% of whom are part-time) and 368,000 hourly employees (48% of whom are part-time). as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately 266,000 employees employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the international brotherhood of teamsters ( teamsters ). during 2014, the teamsters ratified a new national master agreement with ups that will expire on july 31, 2018. we have approximately 2,600 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the independent pilots association ("ipa"), which became amendable at the end of 2011. the ongoing contract negotiations between ups and the ipa are in mediation by the national mediation board. our airline mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with teamsters local 2727, which became amendable november 1, 2013. in addition, approximately 3,100 of our auto and maintenance mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the international association of machinists and aerospace workers ( iam ) that will expire on july 31, 2019. the experience of our management team continues to be an organizational strength. nearly 34% of our full-time managers have more than 20 years of service with ups. we believe that our relations with our employees are good. we periodically survey all our employees to determine their level of job satisfaction. areas of concern receive management attention as we strive to keep ups the employer-of-choice among our employees. we consistently receive numerous awards and wide recognition as an employer-of-choice, resulting in part from our emphasis on diversity and corporate citizenship. safety health, wellness and safety are core values at ups and an enduring belief that the well-being of our people, business partners and the general public is of utmost importance. we train our people to recognize hazards, mitigate risk and avoid injury to themselves and others in all aspects of their work. we do not tolerate unsafe work practices. we recognize employees for health, wellness, and safety accomplishments. we provide programs to educate and promote the health and wellness of employees and their families and the safety of our operations. we are committed to fostering the most effective safety practices in our work environment. by meeting our high safety standards, we contribute to the well-being of our people, company and the communities we serve. we use an all-encompassing comprehensive health and safety process ("chsp") to promote wellness and prevent occupational injuries, illnesses and auto crashes through the development of workplace programs. the foundation of this process is our co-chaired employee and management health and safety committees. together they conduct facility and equipment audits, perform work practice and behavior analysis, conduct training and recommend work process and equipment changes. the components of chsp are: personal value. which is the foundation and forms the base of our health, wellness and safety culture. management commitment and employee involvement. where employees take an active role in their own safety as well as their fellow workers and are supported by management. all operations management commit to providing a work environment that is conducive to the well-being and safety of our employees. work site analysis. which includes injury and auto crash data analysis, behavior observations and facility and equipment audits to identify gaps and develop solutions. our operations managers are responsible for their employees' safety results. we investigate every injury and auto crash and develop prevention activities. hazard prevention and control. where solutions are developed and documented to ensure identified risks have been mitigated. safety education and training. employees who are healthy and well-trained in proper methods are more safe and efficient in performing their jobs. our approach starts with training the trainer. all trainers are certified to ensure that they have the skills and motivation to effectively instruct new employees. all new employees receive safety training during orientation and in the work area. in addition, each new driver receives extensive classroom and online instruction, as well as on-road training. other components to ensure the safety of our people and fleet include: wellness. we have a "five being habits" wellness program that turns health and wellness knowledge into actionable measures. these habits are designed to enable employees and their families to take positive steps toward healthy lifestyles. the "five being habits" themes are: fitness, sleep, hydration, nutrition, and stress management. recognition. we have a well-defined safe driving honor plan to recognize our drivers when they achieve accident-free milestones. we have more than 7,800 drivers enshrined in our coveted circle of honor for drivers who have driven 25 years or more without an avoidable auto crash. preventive maintenance. we have a comprehensive preventive maintenance program to ensure the safety of our fleet. our fleet is managed and monitored electronically to ensure that each vehicle is serviced at a specific time to prevent malfunction or breakdown. competition ups is a global leader in logistics. we offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and, therefore, compete with many different local, regional, national and international carriers. our competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others, including startups that combine technology with crowdsourcing to focus on local market needs. through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of providers in the supply chain, financial services and information technology industries. 10 competitive strengths our competitive strengths include: global network. we believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. we provide all types of package service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) through a single pickup and delivery service network. we also have extensive air freight, ocean freight, ground freight and logistics networks that provide additional capabilities in the global transportation and logistics market. our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. this unique, integrated global business model creates consistent and superior returns. global presence. we serve more than 220 countries and territories around the world. we have a significant presence in all of the world's major economies. leading-edge technology. we are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers optimize their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency. technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. our technology offerings are driven by our customers' needs. we offer a variety of online service options that enable our customers to integrate ups functionality into their own businesses not only to send, manage and track their shipments conveniently, but also to provide their customers with better information services. we provide the infrastructure for an internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated ups tools directly into their own websites. broad portfolio of services. our portfolio of services enables customers to choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many ups services in addition to package delivery. for example, our supply chain services such as freight forwarding, customs brokerage, order fulfillment and returns management help improve the efficiency of the supply chain management process. customer relationships. we focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. we serve 1.6 million pickup customers and 8.4 million delivery customers daily. cross-selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for ups. brand equity. we have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service, reliability and service innovation. the distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the professional courtesy of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity. distinctive culture. we believe that the dedication of our employees results in large part from our distinctive employee-owner concept. our employee stock ownership tradition dates from 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees. to encourage employee stock ownership, we maintain several stock-based compensation programs. our long-standing policy of promotion from within complements our tradition of employee ownership, and this policy reduces the need for us to hire managers and executive officers from outside ups. the majority of our management team began their careers as full-time or part-time hourly ups employees, and have spent their entire careers with us. many of our executive officers have more than 30 years of service with ups and have accumulated a meaningful ownership stake in our company. therefore, our executive officers have a strong incentive to effectively manage ups, which benefits all of our shareowners. financial strength. our balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. our financial strength gives us the resources to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and facilities; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; to service our obligations; and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends, share repurchases and steady share growth. 11 government regulation we are subject to numerous laws and regulations in connection with our package and non-package businesses in the countries in which we operate. a summary of certain laws and regulations are described below. air operations the u.s. department of transportation ( dot ), the federal aviation administration ( faa ), and the u.s. department of homeland security, through the transportation security administration ( tsa ), have regulatory authority over united parcel service co.'s ( ups airlines' ) air transportation services. the federal aviation act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for dot and faa authority and the aviation and transportation security act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for tsa aviation security authority. the dot's authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as insurance requirements, discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. the dot also regulates, subject to the authority of the president of the united states, international routes, fares, rates and practices, and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of u.s. air carriers abroad. international operating rights for u.s. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreement between the u.s. and foreign governments or, in the absence of such agreements, by principles of reciprocity. we are also subject to current and potential aviation regulations imposed by foreign governments in the countries in which we operate, including registration and license requirements and security regulations. ups airlines has international route operating rights granted by the dot and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. the efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on dot and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions. the faa's authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities and personnel. in 1988, the faa granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable faa regulations. in addition, we are subject to non-u.s. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-u.s. jurisdictions and non-u.s. customs regulation. ups aircraft maintenance programs and procedures, including aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals, are approved for all aircraft under faa regulations. the future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional faa regulatory requirements. the tsa regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the tsa mission statement to protect the nation's transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce. ups airlines, and specified airport and off-airport locations, are regulated under tsa regulations applicable to the transportation of cargo in an air network. in addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with tsa regulations. ups airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the civil reserve air fleet ( craf ) program. our participation in the craf program allows the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) to requisition specified ups airlines wide-body aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. the dod compensates us for the use of aircraft under the craf program. in addition, participation in craf entitles ups airlines to bid for military cargo charter operations. ground operations our ground transportation of packages in the u.s. is subject to regulation by the dot and its agency, the federal motor carrier safety administration (the fmcsa ) and the states' jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of operations, safety, insurance and hazardous materials. we also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the fmcsa, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of service. we are subject to similar regulation in many non-u.s. jurisdictions. the postal reorganization act of 1970 created the u.s. postal service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the postal rate commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. the postal accountability and enhancement act of 2006 amended the 1970 act to give the re-named postal regulatory commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the postal service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. we sometimes participate in the proceedings before the postal regulatory commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services. 12 our ground operations are subject to compliance with various cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the u.s. department of homeland security, including regulation by the tsa. customs we are subject to the customs laws in the countries in which we operate, regarding the import and export of shipments, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters. our activities, including customs brokerage and freight forwarding, are subject to regulation by the bureau of customs and border protection and the tsa, the u.s. federal maritime commission and the dot. environmental we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. these laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: proper storage, handling and disposal of waste materials; appropriately managing wastewater and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases; and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. we have established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. in addition, we have created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations. pursuant to the federal aviation act, the faa, with the assistance of the environmental protection agency (the epa ), is authorized to establish standards governing aircraft noise. our aircraft fleet is in compliance with current noise standards of the federal aviation regulations. our international operations are also subject to noise regulations in certain of the countries in which we operate. communications because of our extensive use of radio and other communication facilities in our aircraft and ground transportation operations, we are subject to the federal communications act of 1934, as amended. additionally, the federal communications commission regulates and licenses our activities pertaining to satellite communications. where you can find more information we maintain a website at www.ups.com . our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available through our website www.investors.ups.com as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the sec. however, information on these websites is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the sec. we have adopted a written code of business conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. it is available in the governance section of our investor relations website, located at www.investors.ups.com . in the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the code of business conduct that the sec requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our investor relations website. our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available in the governance section of our investor relations website. our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available at www.sustainability.ups.com . we provide the addresses to our internet sites solely for the information of investors. we do not intend for any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this report. 13 item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. you should read these risk factors in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in item 8. general economic conditions, both in the u.s. and internationally, may adversely affect our results of operations. we conduct operations in over 220 countries and territories. our u.s. and international operations are subject to normal cycles affecting the economy in general, as well as the local economic environments in which we operate. the factors that create cyclical changes to the economy and to our business are beyond our control, and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model to mitigate the impact of these factors. in particular, our business is affected by levels of industrial production, consumer spending and retail activity, and our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by adverse developments in these aspects of the economy. we face significant competition which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we face significant competition on a local, regional, national and international basis. our competitors include the postal services of the u.s. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. competition may also come from other sources in the future. some of our competitors have cost and organizational structures that differ from ours and may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to competitive pressures, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. the transportation industry continues to consolidate and competition remains strong. as a result of consolidation, our competitors may increase their market share and improve their financial capacity, and may strengthen their competitive positions. business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance. changes in our relationships with our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have an adverse impact on us. no single customer accounts for 10% or more of our consolidated revenue. we do not believe the loss of any single customer would materially impair our overall financial condition or results of operations; however, collectively, some of our large customers might account for a relatively significant portion of the growth in revenue in a particular quarter or year. these customers can drive the growth in revenue for particular services based on factors such as: new customer product launches; trends in the e-commerce industry, such as the seasonality associated with the fourth quarter holiday season; business mergers and acquisitions; and the overall fast growth of a customer's underlying business. these customers could choose to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, demand pricing concessions for our services, require us to provide enhanced services that increase our costs, or develop their own shipping and distribution capabilities. if these factors drove some of our large customers to cancel all or a portion of their business relationships with us, it could materially impact the growth in our business and the ability to meet our current and long-term financial forecasts. our business is subject to complex and stringent regulation in the u.s. and internationally. we are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment and other governmental laws, regulations and policies, both in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. in addition, our business is impacted by laws, regulations and policies that affect global trade, including tariff and trade policies, export requirements, taxes, monetary policies and other restrictions and charges. changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies cannot be predicted. compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations in the u.s. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. 14 increased security requirements could impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an attack or have a security breach. as a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, governments around the world have adopted or may adopt stricter security requirements that will result in increased operating costs for businesses in the transportation industry. these requirements may change periodically as a result of regulatory and legislative requirements and in response to evolving threats. we cannot determine the effect that these new requirements will have on our cost structure or our operating results, and these rules or other future security requirements may increase our costs of operations and reduce operating efficiencies. regardless of our compliance with security requirements or the steps we take to secure our facilities or fleet, we could be the target of an attack or security breaches could occur, which could adversely affect our operations or our reputation. we may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such a potential change. concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions. for example, in the past several years, the u.s. congress has considered various bills that would regulate ghg emissions. while these bills have not yet received sufficient congressional support for enactment, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. even in the absence of such legislation, the environmental protection agency, spurred by judicial interpretation of the clean air act, may regulate ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. these costs include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or vehicles prematurely. until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. it is reasonably possible that such legislation or regulation could impose material costs on us. moreover, even without such legislation or regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the ghgs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. a significant number of our employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the teamsters. in addition, our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide services. we may face a permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. we are exposed to the effects of changing prices of energy, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities. changing fuel and energy costs may have a significant impact on our operations. we require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. we mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our indexed fuel surcharges and we may also enter into hedging transactions from time to time. if we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could adversely impact our operating results. even if we are able to offset the cost of fuel with our surcharges, high fuel surcharges may result in a mix shift from our higher-yielding air products to lower-yielding ground products or an overall reduction in volume. if fuel prices rise sharply, even if we are successful in increasing our fuel surcharge, we could experience lag time in implementing the surcharge, which could adversely affect our short-term operating results. there can be no assurance that our hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices. moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies, including our supply of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as a result of war, actions by producers, or other factors beyond our control, which could have an adverse effect on our business. changes in exchange rates or interest rates may have an adverse effect on our results. we conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the united states. our operations in international markets are affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. 15 we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. the impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting our debt is discussed in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk section of this report. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the valuation of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and the related benefit cost recognized in the income statement. the impact of changes in interest rates on our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and costs is discussed further in the "critical accounting policies and estimates" section of this report. we monitor and manage our exposures to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and make use of derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of changes in these rates on our financial position and results of operations; however, changes in exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. if we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the ups brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, environmental concerns, security matters, political activities and the like, or attempts to connect our company to these sorts of issues, either in the united states or other countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and acceptance of our services by customers. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. a significant privacy breach or it system disruption could adversely affect our business and we may be required to increase our spending on data and system security. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. in addition, the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our networks and systems involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. our franchised center locations also are reliant on the use of information technology systems to manage their business processes and activities. our and our franchisees' information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, malicious insiders, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. hackers, acting individually or in coordinated groups, may also launch distributed denial of service attacks or other coordinated attacks that may cause service outages or other interruptions in our business. in addition, breaches in security could expose us, our customers and franchisees, or the individuals affected, to a risk of loss or misuse of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, may be difficult to detect for a long time and often are not recognized until launched against a target. as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any of these occurrences could result in disruptions in our operations, the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, and litigation and potential liability for the company. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data or system protection measures could be significant. in august 2014, a broad-based malware intrusion targeting retailers throughout the u.s. was discovered and subsequently eradicated at approximately 1% of our franchisees' locations. while the impact of this cyber-attack, including the costs associated with investigation and remediation activities, was not material to our business and our financial results, our efforts to deter, identify, mitigate and/or eliminate any future breaches may not be successful. severe weather or other natural or manmade disasters could adversely affect our business. severe weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters, including storms, floods, fires or earthquakes, epidemics or pandemics, or terrorist attacks, conflicts or unrest, may result in decreased revenues, as our customers reduce their shipments, or increased costs to operate our business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for a quarter or year. any such event affecting one of our major facilities could result in a significant interruption in or disruption of our business. 16 we make significant capital investments in our business of which a significant portion is tied to projected volume levels. we require significant capital investments in our business consisting of aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sorting and other types of equipment to support both our existing business and anticipated growth. forecasting projected volume involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty, such as general economic trends, changes in governmental regulation and competition. if we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect our revenues and profitability. in addition to forecasting our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to adverse economic conditions; however, these adjustments may not be sufficient to allow us to maintain our operating margins in a weak economy. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in international markets. we have significant international operations and while the geographical diversity of our international operations helps ensure that we are not overly reliant on a single region or country, we are continually exposed to changing economic, political and social developments beyond our control. emerging markets are typically more volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and commercial customers, and restrict where we can do business, our shipments to certain countries and the information that we can provide to non-u.s. governments. we are subject to changes in markets and our business plans that have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. our regular review of the carrying value of our assets has resulted, from time to time, in significant impairments, and we may in the future be required to recognize additional impairment charges. changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairments of our intangible, fixed or other assets at any time in the future. in addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets or intangible assets are shorter than we originally estimated. such changes could reduce our net income. employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us. with approximately 444,000 employees, including approximately 362,000 in the u.s., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in some of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation and historically low discount rates that we use to value our benefit plan obligations. continued increasing health care costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or require significant contributions to our benefit plans. the new national master agreement with the ibt includes changes that are designed to mitigate certain of these health care expenses, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that the failure or success of these efforts will not adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. we participate in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. as part of the overall collective bargaining process for wage and benefit levels, we have agreed to contribute certain amounts to the multiemployer benefit plans during the contract period. the multiemployer benefit plans set benefit levels and are responsible for benefit delivery to participants. future contribution amounts to multiemployer benefit plans will be determined only through collective bargaining, and we have no additional legal or constructive obligation to increase contributions beyond the agreed-upon amounts (except potential surcharges under the pension protection act of 2006 in the event that a plan enters critical status, and our contributions are not sufficient to satisfy any rehabilitation plan funding schedule). in future collective bargaining negotiations, we could agree to make significantly higher future contributions to improve the funded status of one or more of these plans. the funded status of these multiemployer plans are impacted by various factors, including investment performance, health care inflation, changes in demographics and changes in participant benefit levels. at this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could result from our participation in these plans. 17 in addition to our ongoing multi-employer pension plan obligations, we may have additional exposure with respect to benefits earned in the central states pension fund (the "cspf"), from which ups withdrew in 2007 in return for fully funding its allocable share of unfunded vested benefits thereunder. in 2015, cspf submitted a proposed pension suspension plan to the u.s. department of treasury under the multiemployer pension reform act of 2014 ( mpra ) which proposes to make retirement benefit reductions to cspf participants, including to the benefits of certain ups employee participants. separately, ups agreed to provide supplemental benefits under the ups/ibt full-time employee pension plan to offset certain benefit reductions under the cspf. we have no other multi-employer pension plans subject to such a funding obligation. ups has reviewed the cspf's proposed plan to evaluate the validity of the actions taken by the cspf, the plan's compliance with the mpra (and proposed regulations thereunder) and its potential impact on ups's funding obligations under the ups/ibt full-time employee pension plan. we are vigorously challenging the proposed suspension plan because it does not fully comply with the law and we do not believe certain actions by cspf are valid. accordingly, we have not assumed or recognized a liability for supplemental benefits within the ups/ibt full-time employee pension plan due to the submission of cspf's proposed plan to the u.s. department of treasury. further, we are not able to estimate a range of additional obligations, if any, or determine whether any such amounts are material due to a number of uncertainties relating to the mpra (and proposed regulations thereunder) and assumptions made by the cspf in its proposed plan. we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses and form joint ventures or strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operations, capabilities or technologies and the management of the acquired operations. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate the acquired operations, unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges or charges for impairment of long-term assets that we acquire. insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of the services we provide and the nature of our global operations, including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers' compensation. workers' compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. if the number or severity of claims for which we are retaining risk increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we lose our ability to self-insure these risks, our insurance costs could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. all of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. in order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate forward contracts, options and swaps. a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-a, diesel and unleaded gasoline, as well as changes in the price of natural gas. currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and ltl services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. additionally, we periodically use a combination of option, forward and futures contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , however, we had no commodity contracts outstanding. foreign currency exchange risk we have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. we are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities and cash flows. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. we use forwards as well as a combination of purchased and written options to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. these derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 48 months. we also utilize forward contracts to hedge portions of our anticipated cash settlements of intercompany transactions subject to foreign currency remeasurement. interest rate risk we have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with capital leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. we use a combination of interest rate swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. we also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. our floating rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily libor) interest rates. we also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods. we have investments in debt securities, as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. additionally, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. equity price risk we hold investments in various common equity securities that are subject to price risk. sensitivity analysis the following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk embedded in our existing financial instruments. we utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity and equity prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. 57 united parcel service, inc. and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations there are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. while this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. we adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions. shock-test result as of december 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 change in fair value: currency derivatives (1) $ (435 ) $ (229 ) change in annual interest expense: variable rate debt (2) $ 44 $ 15 interest rate derivatives (2) $ 66 $ 81 (1) the potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities. (2) the potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances). the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in critical accounting policies and estimates . the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our marketable securities and finance receivables due to changes in interest rates was not material as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 . 58risk factors 14 risk factors and may also be described from time to time in our future reports filed with the sec. you should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. item 1. business overview united parcel service, inc. ( ups ) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in seattle, washington. today, we are the world's largest package delivery company, a leader in the u.s. less-than-truckload industry and the premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. we deliver packages each business day for 1.6 million shipping customers to 8.7 million receivers ("consignees") in over 220 countries and territories. in 2016 , we delivered an average of 19.1 million pieces per day, or a total of 4.9 billion packages. total revenue in 2016 was $ 60.9 billion . we serve the global market for logistics services, which include transportation, distribution, contract logistics, ground freight, ocean freight, air freight, customs brokerage, insurance and financing. we have three reportable segments: u.s. domestic package, international package and supply chain &amp; freight, all of which are described below. for financial information concerning our reportable segments and geographic regions, refer to note 12 of our consolidated financial statements. business strategy our market strategy is to provide customers with advanced logistics solutions made possible by a broad portfolio of differentiated services and capabilities expertly assembled and integrated into our customers' businesses. this approach, supported by our efficient and globally balanced multimodal network, enables us to deliver value to our customers and thereby build lasting partnerships with them. customers leverage our broad portfolio of logistics capabilities; balanced global presence in north america, europe, middle east, africa, asia pacific and latin america; reliability; industry-leading technologies; and solutions expertise for competitive advantage in markets where they choose to compete. we prudently invest to expand our integrated global network and service portfolio. technology investments create user-friendly shipping, e-commerce, logistics management and visibility tools for our customers, while supporting our ongoing effort to increase operational efficiencies. we actively monitor and invest to gain insights into emerging technologies such as additive manufacturing (3d printing), route and network optimization tools, autonomous vehicles, and advanced product monitoring and tracking functionality. in 2016, we invested in deliv, a same-day retail delivery startup, and optoro, a reverse logistics firm. 1 in order to meet demand, we are increasing capital expenditures to expand network capacity and increase productivity by automating existing facilities. we are making strategic investments in our top 30 processing hubs as well as adding new facilities to our network. in 2016, we announced investments of $400 million to build a new 1.2 million square foot regional processing facility in atlanta, georgia, $196 million to increase the processing capacity of our jacksonville, florida hub by 33%, and $175 million to double the processing capacity of our columbus, ohio hub. our service portfolio and investments have produced among the best return on invested capital and operating margins in the industry. we have a long history of sound financial management and our consolidated balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. cash generation is a significant strength of ups, giving us strong capacity to service our obligations and allowing for distributions to shareowners, reinvestment in our business and the pursuit of growth opportunities. we enable and are the beneficiaries of the following trends: expansion of global trade we continue to invest to expand in both developed and emerging international markets. in europe, we have committed to nearly $2 billion of capital investment to expand our infrastructure to meet the growing demand for cross-border commerce. the enhancements to our european ground network are designed to ensure that we provide fast, reliable service to customers moving goods across country borders. emerging market opportunities continue to expand. over the next ten years, these markets are expected to represent the majority of global gdp growth and an increasing portion of global trade. emerging markets are a focus of investment and growth for our current customers and will be a source of our next generation of customers. to take advantage of these opportunities, we continue to make long-term investments in markets where our customers are growing. over the past ten years, we have established a strong market presence in three developing markets: china, poland and turkey. india, along with select countries in the middle east, latin america, africa and eastern europe are also becoming increasingly important to us. transcontinental and cross-border trade are predicted to grow faster than u.s. and global gross domestic production for the foreseeable future. as a result, global economies are becoming more inter-connected and dependent on foreign trade. we are committed to continued growth in both international logistics and express services. we are expanding our aircraft fleet beginning in 2017 to include an additional 14 boeing 747-8s. ups plays an important role in both global and regional trade and is well positioned to take advantage of trade growth, wherever it occurs. our global presence and productivity enhancing technologies allow customers to expand into new markets. we advocate for the expansion of free trade, including the passage of regional trade pacts and the removal of trade barriers. these trends underscore why we believe our international business remains a catalyst for future profitable growth. e-commerce growth in retail sectors e-commerce continues to drive significant growth in package delivery volume. our integrated network puts us in an ideal position to capitalize on the shift towards residential deliveries. we continue to create new services, supported by our technology, that complement traditional ups premium home delivery services and address the needs of e-commerce shippers and consignees. we offer cost-effective solutions such as ups surepost, for u.s. domestic shipments, and ups i-parcel, for a low-cost deferred cross border solution, where economy takes precedence over speed. we also offer feature-rich solutions, such as ups my choice, a service that provides more than 30 million members with visibility and control of their inbound shipments. the power of ups my choice has been enhanced over the past year with the addition of ups follow my delivery for time-sensitive shipments. ups follow my delivery offers map-based tracking from a package's delivery departure to a ups my choice member's residence. ups my choice members have the added flexibility to direct packages to ups access point locations when they will not be home to accept a delivery. ups access point locations are convenient places such as the ups store and other local businesses that offer easy package drop-off and pick-up. with evening and weekend hours, ups access point locations better fit some consumers' schedules. merchants in 50 origin countries and territories can ship directly to ups access point locations in 18 destination countries, giving merchants and consumers greater control over package deliveries. 2 industry-focused solutions and offerings we offer differentiated value propositions in several segments, including aerospace, automotive, industrial manufacturing, retail, professional and consumer services, healthcare and high-tech. our understanding of macro and industry trends in each market allows us to develop commercial insights for our customers. these insights are incorporated into our sales and solutions process and are shared with customers through direct engagement, industry forums and publications. we help customers achieve their business objectives and improve their performance through our value-added solutions. the combination of rising global demand for healthcare, product innovations (many of which are time and temperature sensitive), increasing regulatory oversight and downward reimbursement pressure is creating opportunities and challenges for healthcare and life sciences firms. in 2016, we expanded our healthcare capabilities by acquiring maze 1 limited ("marken"), a global provider of supply chain solutions to the life sciences industry, primarily serving the clinical trials logistics space. clinical trials are subject to strict regulatory compliance, require temperature-controlled logistics services and are typically global in reach. marken operates a global network of clinical supply chain services to meet this need. the acquisition of marken follows multiple acquisitions that have expanded our healthcare logistics services portfolio in recent years. with over seven million square feet of healthcare logistics and distribution facilities around the world and further growth planned for the future, we are well-positioned to meet our customers' increasingly complex requirements. rapid technology innovation and growing worldwide demand for electronics are driving change in the already-dynamic high-tech industry. ups's global transportation network and integrated technology solutions enable high-tech customers to get their products to market faster, improve customer service and increase revenue. we offer global sourcing and a significant amount of repair space to leverage one of the largest networks of post-sales facilities in the world. with more than 950 field stocking locations in over 110 countries, we help high-tech companies identify better ways to manage inventories and meet their crucial logistics needs. our experience and global capabilities make us a strong partner in the high-tech industry. logistics outsourcing outsourcing supply chain management is becoming more prevalent as customers increasingly view professional management and operation of their supply chains as a strategic advantage. this trend enables companies to focus on what they do best. we can meet our customers' needs for outsourced logistics with our global capabilities in customized forwarding, transportation, warehousing, distribution, delivery and post-sales services. 3 technology technology powers logistics, forms the foundation of our reliability and allows us to enhance the customer experience. recent developments that improve our operational efficiency, flexibility, reliability and customer experience include: completed phase i of u.s. deployment of our on road integrated optimization and navigation system ("orion"). orion employs advanced algorithms to determine the optimal route for each delivery, while meeting service commitments. despite continuing growth in package volume and delivery stops, orion is helping bend the cost curve by limiting miles driven, which results in fuel and productivity savings. for instance, average daily volume and delivery stops increased 4.1% and 4.4%, respectively, in our u.s. domestic package operations in 2016, while average daily package miles driven only increased 0.2%. expanded investment in new automated facilities . we are also automating our largest hubs, package centers and small sorts globally. this effort will reduce package handling in the network while improving network flexibility by optimizing network flows and eliminating the need for complex sort knowledge. continued rollout of telematics to our international delivery fleet . telematics helps ups determine a vehicles' performance and condition by capturing data on more than 200 operating elements. together, improved data and driver coaching help reduce fuel consumption, emissions and maintenance costs while improving driver safety. by the end of 2016, telematics was installed in more than 86,000 vehicles. we bring industry-leading ups technology to our customers who, in turn, realize increased productivity, greater control of their supply chains and improved customer experience when they integrate with our systems. customers benefit through offerings such as: shipping worldship , which is our flagship desktop shipping application, provides middle-market and large customers with robust shipping capabilities. customers can create custom labels, set up shipment alerts, create and upload customs documentation, track and export shipments, create reports and integrate with their enterprise resource planning and accounting systems to streamline shipping with real-time connectivity. ups marketplace shipping, which integrates www.ups.com with ebay , amazon , etsy and bigcommerce , allows marketplace sellers to easily ship their orders via www.ups.com or worldship . ups marketplace shipping provides simplified shipment processing, multiple payment options (including paypal ), order and shipment history and automatic tracking updates. tracking and visibility ups quantum view helps customers better manage shipments, facilitate tracking, allow for inbound volume planning, manage third-party shipping costs and automatically notify customers of incoming shipments. with visibility into transit times and delivery confirmations, customers can speed up their revenue cycle and collect accounts receivable more quickly while improving customer service. international trade tools ups paperless solutions allow customers to self-enroll in ups paperless invoice and upload shipping documents. these solutions enable customers to electronically transmit a commercial invoice, packing list or their own customs documents when shipping internationally. this eliminates redundant data entry and errors, while reducing customs delays and paper waste. ups tradeability tools help customers effectively and confidently manage the movement of goods internationally in a timely, efficient and compliant manner. billing the ups billing center, a secure location for customers to view, download, manage and pay their ups invoices, helps customers accelerate billing and payment processes. customers can assign privileges with administrative controls, manage multiple accounts and create custom reports using a single simple interface. integration the ups developer kit, which is comprised of multiple application programming interfaces (apis), helps customers streamline and automate their internal business processes. the ups developer kit apis allow customers to integrate a wide range of ups functionality into their business systems and websites such as address validation, shipment scheduling, selection of shipping service levels, tracking and much more. 4 business-to-consumer ups my choice , which focuses on the consignee, has transformed the residential delivery experience. receivers can direct the timing and delivery instructions for their packages using their computer, mobile devices or facebook app. this innovative service is powered by the complex integration of real-time route optimization and other technologies within our delivery network. the global locator on www.ups.com was enhanced to give customers faster and simpler access to ups drop-off and pick-up locations, including new ups access point sites. the global locator has a new search field with updated filters, location images and location-specific promotions. customers can also provide online feedback, e-mail search results, save favorite locations and access recent searches. mobile ups mobile, which includes the mobile website, m.ups.com , and apps for iphone , ipad and android devices, is readily available for our customers in over 80 countries. customers can track, ship, find ups locations, manage ups my choice shipments and receive shipment notifications on their mobile devices. the ups mobile apps and website were enhanced with new mobile shipping options that make it easier to create or print a label from a mobile device. in 2016, the app was deployed in an additional 39 countries, for a total of 55 countries. reporting segments and products &amp; services global small package our global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, small packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. we serve more than 220 countries and territories around the world along with domestic delivery service within 50 countries. we handle packages that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth as well as palletized shipments weighing more than 150 pounds. all of our package services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies. we handle all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through one global integrated pick-up and delivery network. all packages are commingled within our network, except when necessary to meet their specific service commitments. this enables one ups driver to pick up customers' shipments for any of our services at the same scheduled time each day. compared to companies with single service network designs, our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital efficiencies while being more environmentally-friendly. we offer same-day pick-up of air and ground packages upon request. customers can schedule pick-ups for one to five days a week, based on their specific needs. additionally, our wholly-owned and partnered global network offers more than 150,000 entry points where customers can tender a package to us at a location or time convenient to them. this combined network includes ups drivers who can accept packages provided to them, ups drop boxes, ups access point locations, the ups store locations, authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters, alliance locations and customer centers attached to ups facilities. some of these locations offer a full array of services including pick-up, delivery and packing options, while others are drop-off locations only. the growth of online shopping has increased our customers' needs for efficient and reliable returns, resulting in our development of a robust selection of returns services that are available in more than 145 countries. options vary based on customer needs and country, and range from cost-effective solutions such as ups returns, to more-specialized services such as ups returns exchange. ups returns enables shippers to provide their customers with a return shipping label, while ups returns exchange simplifies product exchanges by delivering a replacement item and picking up a return item in the same stop, and assisting with the re-packaging process. we operate one of the largest airlines in the world, with global operations centered at our worldport hub in louisville, kentucky. worldport sort capacity, currently at 416,000 packages per hour, has expanded over the years due to volume growth and a centralization effort. our european air hub is located in cologne, germany, and we maintain asia-pacific air hubs in shanghai, china and shenzhen, china and hong kong. our regional air hub in canada is located in hamilton, ontario, and our regional air hub for latin america and the caribbean is in miami, florida. in the u.s., worldport is supported by our regional air hubs in columbia, south carolina; dallas, texas; ontario, california; philadelphia, pennsylvania; and rockford, illinois. this network design allows for cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facilities, which allow us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft. our u.s. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous u.s. 5 u.s. domestic package reporting segment we are a leader in time-definite, money-back guaranteed, small package delivery services in the u.s. we offer a full spectrum of u.s. domestic guaranteed ground and air package transportation services. customers can select from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. many of these services offer options that enable customers to specify a time-of-day guarantee for their delivery (e.g., by 8:00 am, 10:30 am, noon, end of day, etc.). we expanded ups next day air early (previously known as "ups next day air early am") service to over 12,000 zip codes in two phases where previously only an end-of-day guarantee was available. this enhancement provides shippers and their customers the option of earlier commitment times from 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. and enlarges our early delivery coverage. customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service that serves every u.s. business and residential address. we deliver more ground packages than any other carrier, with average daily package volume of 13.5 million in the u.s., most within one to three business days. we also offer ups surepost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, lightweight residential shipments. ups surepost is a contractual residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the ups ground network with final delivery often provided by the u.s. postal service. international package reporting segment our international package reporting segment includes small package operations in europe, asia-pacific, canada and latin america, the indian sub-continent, the middle east and africa. we offer a wide selection of guaranteed day and time-definite international shipping services. we offer more guaranteed time-definite express options (express plus, express and express saver) than any other carrier. in 2016, we undertook significant country expansions of express time-definite portfolios: we expanded our ups worldwide express mid-day service to 52 new countries across all regions. this service is now available in 118 countries. we expanded our ups worldwide express plus morning delivery service to 28 new countries and expanded our footprint in 25 existing markets. this service is now available in 56 countries. for international shipments that do not require express services, ups worldwide expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option. the service is available from more than 80 origin countries to more than 220 countries and territories. for cross-border ground package delivery, we offer ups standard delivery services within europe, between the u.s. and canada and between the u.s. and mexico. ups worldwide express freight provides guaranteed, day-definite delivery for palletized shipments over 150 pounds. in 2016, we expanded services to nine new emerging market countries. ups worldwide express freight is now available from 66 origin countries to 64 destination countries. europe, our largest region outside of the u.s., accounts for approximately half of international revenue and is one of the primary drivers of our growth. to accommodate the strong potential for growth in small package exports, we made a series of enhancements to our ground network that helps reduce transit time for cross-border shipments by one to two days and will result in improved exporting opportunities for customers in europe. these expansions and enhancements are part of our commitment to invest nearly $2 billion in our european infrastructure by 2019. asia-pacific remains a strategic market due to growth rates in intra-asia trade and the expanding chinese economy. to capitalize on these opportunities, we are bringing faster time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-asia trade, and reducing transit days from asia to the u.s. and europe. through added flight frequencies, we provide our customers the ability to ship next day to more places in the u.s. and europe, guaranteed, than any other express carrier. we serve more than 40 asia-pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances with local delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations. the investments we are making to expand our network and improve service levels have already created a strong foundation, contributing to 30% incremental profit growth over the last two years. excluding any impacts from foreign currency, we expect this positive momentum in our core international business model to continue going forward. 6 supply chain &amp; freight reporting segment the supply chain &amp; freight reporting segment consists of our forwarding and logistics services, truckload freight brokerage, ups freight and our financial offerings through ups capital. supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with complementary financial and information services. outsourcing of non-core logistics activity is a strategy more and more companies are pursuing. with increased competition and growth opportunities in new markets, businesses require flexible and responsive supply chains to support their business strategies. we meet this demand by offering a broad array of supply chain services in over 195 countries and territories. freight forwarding we are one of the largest u.s. domestic air freight carriers and among the top international air freight forwarders globally. we offer a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. additionally, as one of the world's leading non-vessel operating common carriers, we provide ocean freight full-container load, less-than-container load and multimodal transportation services between most major ports around the world. truckload freight brokerage (coyote) in 2015, we acquired coyote logistics midco, inc ("coyote"), a u.s.-based truckload freight brokerage company. we successfully integrated this large-scale truckload freight brokerage and transportation management services operation into our supply chain &amp; freight reporting segment, and have seen significant synergies in the areas of purchased transportation, backhaul utilization, cross-selling to customers, technology systems and industry best practices. coyote's access to our ups fleet combined with its broad carrier network has created a customized capacity solution for all markets, customers and situations. moreover, coyote has been able to cross-sell ups services (such as air freight, customs brokerage and global freight forwarding) to its customer base. global logistics and distribution ups logistics offers the following services: we provide value-added distribution services to customers through our global network of company-owned and leased warehouse facilities. ups post sales enables customers and end users to support equipment and devices after they have been delivered or installed in the field. we leverage our global network of over 950 field stocking locations ("fsl") to ensure the right parts are in the right place, at the right time. our network of fsls span more than 110 countries around the globe. ups mail innovations offers an efficient, cost-effective method for sending lightweight parcels and flat mail to global addresses from the u.s. we pick up customers' domestic and international mail and then sort, post, manifest and expedite the secured mail containers to the destination postal service for last-mile delivery. ups express critical provides urgent, secure transportation for time-sensitive and high-value goods. the service is designed to complement ups's core parcel and air freight services. it includes same-day, next-flight-out and door-to-door ground services, including specialized charter and hand-carry services for both light and heavyweight shipments. in 2016, we expanded our healthcare capabilities by acquiring marken, a global provider of supply chain solutions to the life sciences industry, primarily serving the clinical trials logistics space. clinical trials are subject to strict regulatory compliance, require temperature-controlled logistics services and are typically global in reach. marken operates a global network of clinical supply chain services to meet the increasingly complex demands of its clients. the acquisition of marken follows multiple acquisitions that have expanded our healthcare logistics services portfolio. ups freight ups freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload ("ltl") services, as well as full truckload services, in all 50 states, canada, puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands and mexico. ups freight provides reliable ltl service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. additionally, user-friendly shipping, visibility and billing technology offerings including ups worldship , quantum view and ups billing center, allow freight customers to create electronic bills of lading, monitor shipment progress and reconcile shipping charges. customs brokerage we are among the world's largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees worldwide. we provide our customers with customs clearance, trade management and international trade consulting services. 7 ups capital ups capital provides financial, insurance and payment services to help protect companies from risk and leverage cash in their supply chains. with services available in over 21 countries, ups capital and its affiliates support all aspects of the order-to-cash cycle, including financing inventory warehoused overseas, insuring shipments and providing payment solutions. the ups capital suite of cargo and credit insurance, trade finance and payment solutions is designed to help customers protect their assets and keep their businesses running smoothly. with the acquisitions of parcel pro and the insured parcel services business of g4s international logistics in 2015, ups capital now offers insured transportation of high-value goods including loose stones, finished jewelry and wristwatches. sustainability our business and corporate responsibility strategies pursue a common interest to increase the vitality and environmental sustainability of the global economy by aggregating the shipping activity of millions of businesses and individuals worldwide into a single, highly efficient logistics network. this provides benefits to: ups, by ensuring strong demand for our services. the economy, by enabling global commerce and making global supply chains more efficient and less expensive. the environment, by enabling our global customers to leverage ups's network efficiency and thereby reduce the greenhouse gas emissions intensity of their supply chains. communities, by connecting individuals to global markets and providing the economic empowerment that can help facilitate positive social change. we pursue sustainable business practices worldwide through operational efficiency, fleet and fuel advances, facility engineering projects and conservation-enabling technology and service offerings. we help our customers do the same. we consider stakeholder engagement an essential aspect of corporate governance and regularly collaborate with a diverse set of global stakeholders on sustainability issues. our most material global sustainability issues primarily involve our energy use, emissions and workplace policies. ups established an enterprise-wide target to reduce the carbon intensity of our operations by 20% by 2020, using 2007 as a baseline. as of 2015, we achieved a 14.5% reduction toward this goal as a result of successfully executing greenhouse gas reduction strategies in our ground, air and facility operations. sustainability highlights in 2016 include: one of corporate responsibility's 100 best corporate citizens for the 7th consecutive year. recognized by ethisphere institute as one of the world's most ethical companies for the 10th consecutive year. recognized as a constituent of the dow jones sustainability north america index for the 12th consecutive year; in addition, we were included on the dow jones sustainability world index for the 4th consecutive year. recognized as a constituent of the nasdaq omx global sustainability index for the 7th consecutive year. recognized at the leadership level of cdp's climate performance review. included for the 3rd consecutive time on points of light's civic 50, which recognizes the most community-minded companies in the us. more information on how we address our most significant sustainability issues is available in the ups corporate sustainability report and on the ups sustainability website at www.ups.com/sustainability . 8 community we believe that strong communities are vital to the success of our company. by combining our philanthropy with the volunteer time and talents of our employees, we help drive positive change for organizations and communities in need across the globe. the highlights of our corporate citizenship efforts in 2016 include: local non-profits around the world received nearly 2.7 million hours of volunteer service from our employees participating in our neighbor-to-neighbor program. the ups foundation, which oversees corporate citizenship efforts for the company, invested nearly $117 million in donations of both cash and in-kind services to global causes, primarily in four focus areas community safety, environmental sustainability, diversity and volunteerism. our employees, both active and retired, contributed approximately $57 million to united way, which was matched by a corporate contribution of nearly $9 million. through the ups foundation we have the opportunity to support our global communities to offset carbon, support clean water, reduce poverty and help individuals sustain their lives through the planting of trees. the ups global forestry initiative, which began in 2013, is the signature program of the ups foundation's environmental focus area. by the end of 2016, we have supported the planting of seven million trees worldwide. we continued to aid communities impacted by disasters through our ups humanitarian relief and resilience program, by providing our logistics expertise, skilled volunteers, capacity building support and in-kind services. in 2016, we coordinated more than 450 humanitarian relief shipments across 53 countries and provided funding and logistics support to strengthen long-term recovery efforts of communities impacted by over 20 world disasters including the global refugee crisis, hurricane matthew and the japan earthquake. nearly 8,500 teenagers and novice drivers in the u.s., canada, the u.k., germany, mexico and china participated in ups road code. this safety program for new drivers features our employees as instructors a role where they share driving knowledge and safety tips amassed over our long history of safe driving. reputation great brands require connecting with customers, investors and other stakeholders with honesty and transparency. in working to develop these connections, we regularly receive high accolades from independent brand and reputation evaluations. in 2016 , we continued to be ranked highly by the following: forbes' 2016 ranking of "the world's most valued brands" , interbrand's " best global brands,2016", 2016 fortune magazine's list of " world's most admired companies ", 2016 gartner magic quadrant for the third-party logistics leader, worldwide, and wpp's brandz "top 100 most valuable global brands" 2016 survey by millward brown optimor . employees the strength of our company is our people, working together with a common purpose. we had more than 434,000 employees (excluding temporary seasonal employees) as of december 31, 2016 , of which 355,000 are in the u.s. and 79,000 are located internationally. our global workforce includes approximately 78,000 management employees (38% of whom are part-time) and 356,000 hourly employees (47% of whom are part-time). as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately 268,000 employees employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the international brotherhood of teamsters ( teamsters ). during 2014, the teamsters ratified a new national master agreement with ups that will expire on july 31, 2018. we have approximately 2,600 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the independent pilots association ("ipa"), which became amendable at the end of 2011. on august 31, 2016, the ipa members voted to ratify a new five-year labor contract. terms of the agreement became effective september 1, 2016 and run through september 1, 2021. the economic provisions in the agreement included pay increases, signing bonuses and enhanced pension benefits. our airline mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with teamsters local 2727, which became amendable november 1, 2013. we are currently in negotiations with teamsters local 2727. in addition, approximately 3,000 of our auto and maintenance mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the international association of machinists and aerospace workers ( iam ) that will expire on july 31, 2019. 9 the experience of our management team continues to be an organizational strength. nearly 34% of our full-time managers have more than 20 years of service with ups. we believe that our relations with our employees are good. we periodically survey all our employees to determine their level of job satisfaction. areas of concern receive management attention as we strive to keep ups the employer-of-choice among our employees. we consistently receive numerous awards and wide recognition as an employer-of-choice, resulting in part from our emphasis on diversity and corporate citizenship. safety health, wellness and safety are core values at ups and an enduring belief that the well-being of our people, business partners and the general public is of utmost importance. we train our people to recognize hazards, mitigate risk and avoid injury to themselves and others in all aspects of their work. we do not tolerate unsafe work practices. we recognize employees for health, wellness, and safety accomplishments. we provide education programs which promote the health and wellness of employees, their families and the safety of our global operations. we are committed to fostering the most effective safety practices in our work environment. by maintaining our high safety standards, we contribute to the well-being of our people, the company and the communities we serve. competition ups is a global leader in logistics. we offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and, therefore, compete with many different local, regional, national and international logistics providers. our competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others, including startups that combine technology with crowdsourcing to focus on local market needs. through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of providers in the supply chain, financial services and information technology industries. competitive strengths our competitive strengths include: global network. we believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. we provide all types of package service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) through a single pick-up and delivery service network. we also have extensive air freight, ocean freight, ground freight and logistics networks that provide additional capabilities in the global transportation and logistics market. our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. this unique, integrated global business model creates consistent and superior returns. global presence. we serve more than 220 countries and territories around the world. we have a significant presence in all of the world's major economies. leading-edge technology. we are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers optimize their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency. technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. our technology offerings are driven by our customers' needs. we offer a variety of online service options that enable our customers to integrate ups functionality into their own businesses not only to send, manage and track their shipments conveniently, but also to provide their customers with better information services. we provide the infrastructure for an internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated ups tools directly into their own websites. broad portfolio of services. our portfolio of services enables customers to choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many ups services in addition to package delivery. for example, our supply chain services such as freight forwarding, customs brokerage, order fulfillment and returns management help improve the efficiency of the supply chain management process. customer relationships. we focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. we serve 1.6 million pickup customers and 8.7 million delivery customers daily. cross-selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for ups. 10 brand equity. we have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service, reliability and service innovation. the distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the professional courtesy of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity. distinctive culture. we believe that the dedication of our employees results in large part from our distinctive employee-owner concept. our employee stock ownership tradition dates from 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees. to encourage employee stock ownership, we maintain several stock-based compensation programs. our long-standing policy of promotion from within complements our tradition of employee ownership, and this policy reduces the need for us to hire managers and executive officers from outside ups. the majority of our management team began their careers as full-time or part-time hourly ups employees, and have spent their entire careers with us. many of our executive officers have more than 30 years of service with ups and have accumulated a meaningful ownership stake in our company. therefore, our executive officers have a strong incentive to effectively manage ups, which benefits all of our shareowners. financial strength. our financial strength gives us the resources to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and facilities; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; to service our obligations; and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends, share repurchases and steady share growth. government regulation we are subject to numerous laws and regulations in connection with our package and non-package businesses in the countries in which we operate. certain of these laws and regulations are summarized below. air operations the u.s. department of transportation ( dot ), the federal aviation administration ( faa ) and the u.s. department of homeland security, through the transportation security administration ( tsa ), have regulatory authority over united parcel service co.'s ( ups airlines' ) air transportation services. the federal aviation act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for dot and faa authority and the aviation and transportation security act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for tsa aviation security authority. the dot's authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as insurance requirements, discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. the dot also regulates, subject to the authority of the president of the united states, international routes, fares, rates and practices, and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of u.s. air carriers abroad. international operating rights for u.s. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreements between the u.s. and foreign governments or, in the absence of such agreements, by principles of reciprocity. we are also subject to current and potential aviation regulations imposed by foreign governments in the countries in which we operate, including registration and license requirements and security regulations. ups airlines has international route operating rights granted by the dot and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. the efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on dot and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions. the faa's authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities and personnel. in 1988, the faa granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable faa regulations. in addition, we are subject to non-u.s. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-u.s. jurisdictions and non-u.s. customs regulation. ups aircraft maintenance programs and procedures, including aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals, are approved for all aircraft under faa regulations. the future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional faa regulatory requirements. the tsa regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the tsa mission statement to protect the nation's transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce. ups airlines, and specified airport and off-airport locations, are regulated under tsa regulations applicable to the transportation of cargo in an air network. in addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with tsa regulations. 11 ups airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the civil reserve air fleet ( craf ) program. our participation in the craf program allows the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) to requisition specified ups airlines wide-body aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. the dod compensates us for the use of aircraft under the craf program. in addition, participation in craf entitles ups airlines to bid for military cargo charter operations. ground operations our ground transportation of packages in the u.s. is subject to regulation by the dot and its agency, the federal motor carrier safety administration (the fmcsa ) and the states' jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of operations, safety, insurance and hazardous materials. we also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the fmcsa, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours of service for drivers. we are subject to similar regulation in many non-u.s. jurisdictions. the postal reorganization act of 1970 created the u.s. postal service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the postal rate commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. the postal accountability and enhancement act of 2006 amended the 1970 act to give the re-named postal regulatory commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the postal service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. we sometimes participate in the proceedings before the postal regulatory commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services. our ground operations are subject to compliance with various cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the u.s. department of homeland security, including regulation by the tsa. customs we are subject to the customs laws in the countries in which we operate, regarding the import and export of shipments, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters. our activities, including customs brokerage and freight forwarding, are subject to regulation by the bureau of customs and border protection, the tsa, the u.s. federal maritime commission and the dot. environmental we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. these laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: proper storage, handling and disposal of waste materials; appropriately managing wastewater and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases; and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. we have established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. in addition, we have created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations. pursuant to the federal aviation act, the faa, with the assistance of the environmental protection agency ( epa ), is authorized to establish standards governing aircraft noise. our aircraft fleet is in compliance with current noise standards of the federal aviation regulations. our international operations are also subject to noise regulations in certain countries in which we operate. communications because of our extensive use of radio and other communication facilities in our aircraft and ground transportation operations, we are subject to the federal communications act of 1934, as amended. additionally, the federal communications commission regulates and licenses our activities pertaining to satellite communications. where you can find more information we maintain a website at www.ups.com . our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available through our website www.investors.ups.com as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the sec. however, information on these websites is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the sec. 12 we have adopted a written code of business conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. it is available in the governance section of our investor relations website, located at www.investors.ups.com . in the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the code of business conduct that the sec requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our investor relations website. our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee, risk committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available in the governance section of our investor relations website. our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available at www.sustainability.ups.com . we provide the addresses to our internet sites solely for the information of investors. we do not intend for any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this report. 13 item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. you should read these risk factors in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in item 8. general economic conditions, both in the u.s. and internationally, may adversely affect our results of operations. we conduct operations in over 220 countries and territories. our u.s. and international operations are subject to normal cycles affecting the economy in general, as well as the local economic environments in which we operate. the factors that create cyclical changes to the economy and to our business are beyond our control, and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model to mitigate the impact of these factors. in particular, our business is affected by levels of industrial production, consumer spending and retail activity and our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by adverse developments in these aspects of the economy. the united kingdom's vote to leave the european union could result in economic uncertainty and instability, resulting in fewer goods being transported globally. we face significant competition which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we face significant competition on a local, regional, national and international basis. our competitors include the postal services of the u.s. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. competition may also come from other sources in the future. some of our competitors have cost and organizational structures that differ from ours and may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to competitive pressures, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. the transportation industry continues to consolidate and competition remains strong. as a result of consolidation, our competitors may increase their market share and improve their financial capacity, and may strengthen their competitive positions. business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance. changes in our relationships with our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have an adverse impact on us. no single customer accounts for 10% or more of our consolidated revenue. we do not believe the loss of any single customer would materially impair our overall financial condition or results of operations; however, collectively, some of our large customers might account for a relatively significant portion of the growth in revenue in a particular quarter or year. these customers can drive the growth in revenue for particular services based on factors such as: new customer product launches; trends in the e-commerce industry, such as the seasonality associated with the fourth quarter holiday season; business mergers and acquisitions; and the overall fast growth of a customer's underlying business. these customers could choose to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, demand pricing concessions for our services, require us to provide enhanced services that increase our costs, or develop their own shipping and distribution capabilities. if these factors drove some of our large customers to cancel all or a portion of their business relationships with us, it could materially impact the growth in our business and the ability to meet our current and long-term financial forecasts. our business is subject to complex and stringent regulation in the u.s. and internationally. we are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment and other governmental laws, regulations and policies, both in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. in addition, our business is impacted by laws, regulations and policies that affect global trade, including tariff and trade policies, export requirements, taxes, monetary policies and other restrictions and charges. changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies cannot be predicted. compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations in the u.s. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. 14 increased security requirements could impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an attack or have a security breach. as a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, governments around the world have adopted or may adopt stricter security requirements that will result in increased operating costs for businesses in the transportation industry. these requirements may change periodically as a result of regulatory and legislative requirements and in response to evolving threats. we cannot determine the effect that these new requirements will have on our cost structure or our operating results, and these rules or other future security requirements may increase our costs of operations and reduce operating efficiencies. regardless of our compliance with security requirements or the steps we take to secure our facilities or fleet, we could be the target of an attack or security breaches could occur, which could adversely affect our operations or our reputation. we may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such a potential change. concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions. for example, in the past several years, the u.s. congress has considered various bills that would regulate ghg emissions. while these bills have not yet received sufficient congressional support for enactment, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. even in the absence of such legislation, the environmental protection agency, spurred by judicial interpretation of the clean air act, may regulate ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. these costs include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or vehicles prematurely. until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. it is reasonably possible that such legislation or regulation could impose material costs on us. moreover, even without such legislation or regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the ghgs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. a significant number of our employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the teamsters. in addition, our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide services. we may face a permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. we are exposed to the effects of changing prices of energy, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities. changing fuel and energy costs may have a significant impact on our operations. we require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. we mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our indexed fuel surcharges and we may also enter into hedging transactions from time to time. if we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could adversely impact our operating results. even if we are able to offset the cost of fuel with our surcharges, high fuel surcharges may result in a mix shift from our higher-yielding air products to lower-yielding ground products or an overall reduction in volume. there can be no assurance that our hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices. moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies, including our supply of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as a result of war, actions by producers or other factors beyond our control, which could have an adverse effect on our business. changes in exchange rates or interest rates may have an adverse effect on our results. we conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the united states. our operations in international markets are affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. 15 we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. the impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting our debt is discussed in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk section of this report. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the valuation of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and the related benefit cost recognized in the income statement. the impact of changes in interest rates on our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and costs is discussed further in the "critical accounting policies and estimates" section of this report. we monitor and manage our exposures to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and make use of derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of changes in these rates on our financial position and results of operations; however, changes in exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. if we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the ups brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, environmental concerns, security matters, political activities and the like, or attempts to connect our company to these sorts of issues, either in the united states or other countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and acceptance of our services by customers. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. a significant privacy breach or it system disruption could adversely affect our business and we may be required to increase our spending on data and system security. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. in addition, the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our networks and systems involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. our franchised center locations also are reliant on the use of information technology systems to manage their business processes and activities. our information technology systems (as well as those of our franchisees), some of which are managed by third-parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, malicious insiders, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. hackers, acting individually or in coordinated groups, may also launch distributed denial of service attacks or other coordinated attacks that may cause service outages or other interruptions in our business. in addition, breaches in security could expose us, our customers and franchisees, or the individuals affected, to a risk of loss or misuse of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, may be difficult to detect for a long time and often are not recognized until launched against a target. as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any of these occurrences could result in disruptions in our operations, the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, and litigation and potential liability for the company. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data or system protection measures could be significant. in august 2014, a broad-based malware intrusion targeting retailers throughout the u.s. was discovered and subsequently eradicated at approximately 1% of our franchisees' locations. while the impact of this cyber-attack, including the costs associated with investigation and remediation activities, was not material to our business and our financial results, our efforts to deter, identify, mitigate and/or eliminate any future breaches may not be successful. severe weather or other natural or manmade disasters could adversely affect our business. severe weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters, including storms, floods, fires or earthquakes, epidemics or pandemics, conflicts or unrest, or terrorist attacks may result in decreased revenues, as our customers reduce their shipments, or increased costs to operate our business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for a quarter or year. any such event affecting one of our major facilities could result in a significant interruption in or disruption of our business. 16 we make significant capital investments in our business of which a significant portion is tied to projected volume levels. we require significant capital investments in our business consisting of aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sorting and other types of equipment to support both our existing business and anticipated growth. forecasting projected volume involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty, such as general economic trends, changes in governmental regulation and competition. if we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect our revenues and profitability. in addition to forecasting our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to adverse economic conditions; however, these adjustments may not be sufficient to allow us to maintain our operating margins in a weak economy. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in international markets. we have significant international operations and while the geographical diversity of our international operations helps ensure that we are not overly reliant on a single region or country, we are continually exposed to changing economic, political and social developments beyond our control. emerging markets are typically more volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and commercial customers, and restrict where we can do business, our shipments to certain countries and the information that we can provide to non-u.s. governments. we are subject to changes in markets and our business plans that have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. our regular review of the carrying value of our assets has resulted, from time to time, in significant impairments, and we may in the future be required to recognize additional impairment charges. changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairments of our intangible, fixed or other assets at any time in the future. in addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets or intangible assets are shorter than we originally estimated. such changes could reduce our net income. employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us. our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in some of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation and historically low discount rates that we use to value our benefit plan obligations. continually increasing health care costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or require significant contributions to our benefit plans. the new national master agreement with the ibt includes changes that are designed to mitigate certain of these health care expenses, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that the failure or success of these efforts will not adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. we participate in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. as part of the overall collective bargaining process for wage and benefit levels, we have agreed to contribute certain amounts to the multiemployer benefit plans during the contract period. the multiemployer benefit plans set benefit levels and are responsible for benefit delivery to participants. future contribution amounts to multiemployer benefit plans will be determined only through collective bargaining, and we have no additional legal or constructive obligation to increase contributions beyond the agreed-upon amounts (except potential surcharges under the pension protection act of 2006 in the event that a plan enters critical status, and our contributions are not sufficient to satisfy any rehabilitation plan funding schedule). in future collective bargaining negotiations, we could agree to make significantly higher future contributions to improve the funded status of one or more of these plans. the funded status of these multiemployer plans is impacted by various factors, including investment performance, health care inflation, changes in demographics and changes in participant benefit levels. at this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could result from our participation in these plans. 17 in addition to our on-going multiemployer pension plan obligations, we may have additional exposure with respect to benefits earned in the central states pension fund (the "cspf"). ups was a contributing employer to the cspf until 2007 when we withdrew from the plan and fully funded our allocable share of unfunded vested benefits by paying a $6.1 billion withdrawal liability. under a collective bargaining agreement with the international brotherhood of teamsters, ups agreed to provide coordinating benefits in the ups/ibt full time employee pension plan ( ups/ibt plan ) for ups participants retiring on or after january 1, 2008 in the event that benefits are lawfully reduced by the cspf in the future. in december 2014, congress passed the multiemployer pension reform act ( mpra ), which for the first time ever allowed multiemployer pension plans to reduce benefit payments to retirees, subject to specific guidelines in the statute and government oversight. in september 2015, the cspf submitted a proposed pension benefit reduction plan to the u.s. department of the treasury under the mpra. the cspf plan proposed to reduce retirement benefits to the cspf participants, including ups participants retiring on or after january 1, 2008. we vigorously challenged the proposed benefit reduction plan because we believed that it did not comply with the law and that certain actions by the cspf were invalid. on may 6, 2016, the u.s. department of the treasury rejected the proposed plan submitted by the cspf, stating that it failed to satisfy a number of requirements set forth in the mpra. the cspf has asserted that it will become insolvent in 2025 which could lead to the reduction of retirement benefits. although there are numerous factors that could affect the cspf's status, if the cspf were to become insolvent as they have projected, ups may be required to provide coordinating benefits, thereby increasing the current projected benefit obligation for the ups/ibt plan by approximately $4 billion. the cspf has said that it believes a legislative solution to its funding status is necessary, and we expect that the cspf will continue to explore options to avoid insolvency. the potential obligation to pay coordinating benefits from the ups/ibt plan is subject to a number of uncertainties, including actions that may be taken by the cspf, the federal government or others. these actions include whether the cspf will submit a revised pension benefit reduction plan or otherwise seek federal government assistance, the extent to which benefits are paid by the pension benefit guaranty corporation, as well as the effect of discount rates and various other actuarial assumptions. our best estimate, as of the measurement date of december 31, 2016, is that we do not have any liability for additional coordinating benefits of the ups/ibt plan. however, there are numerous uncertainties that exist regarding the ultimate resolution of the cspf situation and the current projected benefit obligation could materially increase as these uncertainties are resolved . we will continue to assess the impact of these uncertainties on the projected benefit obligation of the ups/ibt plan in accordance with accounting standards codification topic 715 - compensation - retirement benefits. we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses and form joint ventures or strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operations, capabilities or technologies and the management of the acquired operations. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate the acquired operations, unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges or charges for impairment of long-term assets that we acquire. insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of the services we provide and the nature of our global operations, including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers' compensation. workers' compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. if the number or severity of claims for which we are retaining risk increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we lose our ability to self-insure these risks, our insurance costs could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. all of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. in order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate forward contracts, options and swaps. a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-a, diesel and unleaded gasoline, as well as changes in the price of natural gas. currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and ltl services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. additionally, we periodically use a combination of option, forward and futures contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 , however, we had no commodity contracts outstanding. foreign currency exchange risk we have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. we are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities and cash flows. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. we use forwards as well as a combination of purchased and written options to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. these derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 48 months. we also utilize forward contracts to hedge portions of our anticipated cash settlements of intercompany transactions subject to foreign currency remeasurement. interest rate risk we have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with capital leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. we use a combination of interest rate swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. we also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. our floating rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily libor) interest rates. we also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods. we have investments in debt securities, as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. additionally, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. sensitivity analysis the following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk embedded in our existing financial instruments. we utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity and equity prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. there are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. while this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. we adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. 62 united parcel service, inc. and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions. shock-test result as of december 31, (in millions) 2016 2015 change in fair value: currency derivatives (1) $ (437 ) $ (435 ) change in annual interest expense: variable rate debt (2) $ 49 $ 44 interest rate derivatives (2) $ 58 $ 66 (1) the potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities. (2) the potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances). the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in critical accounting policies and estimates . the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our marketable securities and finance receivables due to changes in interest rates was not material as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 . 63risk factors 9 risk factors and may also be described from time to time in our future reports filed with the sec. you should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. item 1. business overview united parcel service, inc. ( ups ) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in seattle, washington. today, we are the world's largest package delivery company, a leader in the u.s. less-than-truckload industry and a premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. we deliver packages each business day for 1.5 million shipping customers to 9.0 million receivers ("consignees") in over 220 countries and territories. in 2017 , we delivered an average of 20.0 million pieces per day, or a total of 5.1 billion packages. total revenue in 2017 was $ 65.872 billion . we serve the global market for logistics services, which includes transportation, distribution, contract logistics, ground freight, ocean freight, air freight, customs brokerage, insurance and financing. we have three segments: u.s. domestic package, international package and supply chain &amp; freight, all of which are described below. for financial information concerning our segments and geographic regions, refer to note 12 of our audited consolidated financial statements. strategy our market strategy is to provide customers with advanced logistics solutions made possible by a broad portfolio of differentiated services and capabilities expertly assembled and integrated into our customers' businesses. this approach, supported by our efficient and globally balanced multimodal network, enables us to deliver value to our customers and thereby build lasting partnerships with them. customers leverage our broad portfolio of logistics capabilities comprised of: our balanced global presence in north america, europe, middle east, africa, asia pacific and latin america; reliability; industry-leading technologies and solutions expertise for competitive advantage in markets where they choose to compete. we continue to invest to expand our integrated global network and service portfolio. in 2017, we formed and received approval for a joint venture with sf express, china's leading small package company, which will ultimately provide millions of potential customers in china with improved access to buyers and sellers around the world. we acquired freightex, ltd. ("freightex") to extend our platform-based freight transportation capabilities into both the u.k. and european markets. the acquisition of eirpost group unlimited company ("nightline") vaulted ups to a leading market position in ireland. we added shipping centers and healthcare and distribution facilities in mexico, colombia and india. in 2017, we also acquired sttas global holdings, inc. ("sandler &amp; travis trade advisory services" or "sttas"), the world's largest dedicated global trade compliance management company. 1 we are increasing our capital expenditures to meet increasing global demand. within our facilities, we are expanding automated capacity, driving greater efficiencies and providing additional network flexibilities. we also continue to invest in our air network capacity through aircraft acquisitions. in 2017, we announced investments in four new regional facilities in the indianapolis, phoenix, salt lake city and dallas areas, with the previously announced regional facility in atlanta, georgia continuing to move toward completion. we have a long history of sound financial management and our consolidated balance sheet reflects financial strength. cash generation is a significant strength of ups, giving us ample capacity to service our obligations and allowing for distributions to shareowners, reinvestment in our business and the pursuit of growth opportunities. reporting segments and products &amp; services global small package our global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, small packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. we serve more than 220 countries and territories around the world along with domestic delivery service in over 50 countries. we handle packages that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth as well as palletized shipments weighing more than 150 pounds. all of our package services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies. we handle all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) through one global integrated pickup and delivery network. we combine all packages within our network, unless dictated by specific service commitments. this enables one ups driver to pick up customers' shipments for any of our services at the same scheduled time each day. compared to companies with single service network designs, our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital efficiencies while being more environmentally friendly. we offer same-day pickup of air and ground packages upon request. customers can schedule pickups for one to five days a week, based on their specific needs. additionally, our wholly-owned and partnered global network offers more than 150,000 entry points where customers can tender a package to us at a location or time convenient to them. this combined network includes ups drivers who can accept packages provided to them, ups drop boxes, ups access point locations, the ups store locations, authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters, alliance locations and customer centers attached to ups facilities. some of these locations offer a full array of services, including pickup, delivery and packing options, while others are drop-off locations only. the continued growth of online and mobile shopping has increased our customers' needs for efficient and reliable returns, resulting in our development of a robust selection of returns services that are available in more than 145 countries. the portfolio provides a range of cost-effective label options and a vast network of consumer drop points, as well as a selection of return technologies that promote efficiency and a friction-free consumer experience. these options vary based on customer need and country and include solutions such as ups returns , as well as more-specialized services such as ups returns exchange. our technologies promote systems integration, client ease of use and visibility of inbound merchandise, which help reduce costs and improve efficiency of our merchants' reverse logistics processes. the newly launched ups returns manager is an excellent example of this value. we operate one of the largest airlines in the world, with global operations centered at our worldport hub in louisville, kentucky. worldport sort capacity has expanded over the years due to volume growth and centralization efforts. our european air hub is located in cologne, germany, and we maintain asia pacific air hubs in shanghai, china; shenzhen, china and hong kong. our regional air hub in canada is located in hamilton, ontario and our regional air hub for latin america and the caribbean is in miami, florida. our u.s. regional air hubs in dallas, texas; ontario, california; philadelphia, pennsylvania and rockford, illinois support worldport. this network design creates cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facilities, which allows us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft. our u.s. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous u.s. 2 u.s. domestic package reporting segment we are a leader in time-definite, money-back guaranteed, small package delivery services in the u.s. we offer a full spectrum of u.s. domestic guaranteed ground and air package transportation services. customers can select from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. ups's air portfolio offers options enabling customers to specify a time-of-day guarantee for their delivery (e.g., by 8:00 a.m., 10:30 a.m., noon, end of day, etc.). customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service that serves every u.s. business and residential address. we deliver more ground packages in the u.s. than any other carrier, with average daily package volume of 14.1 million , most within one to three business days. we also offer ups surepost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, lightweight residential shipments. ups surepost is a contractual residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the ups ground network with final delivery often provided by the u.s. postal service. we utilize our operational technology to identify multiple package delivery opportunities and redirect ups surepost packages for final delivery, improving time in transit, customer service and operational efficiency. international package reporting segment our international package reporting segment includes small package operations in europe, asia pacific, canada and latin america, and the indian sub-continent, middle east and africa ("ismea"). we offer a wide selection of guaranteed day and time-definite international shipping services. we offer more guaranteed time-definite express options (express plus, express and express saver) than any other carrier. in 2017, we continued expansion of our express time-definite portfolios: we expanded ups worldwide express to five new countries around the globe. ups express now reaches 124 countries with guaranteed mid-day delivery and 56 countries with guaranteed morning delivery with express plus. express saver reaches 220 countries and territories with guaranteed end-of-day delivery. express freight midday is available from all 67 worldwide express freight origin countries to 35 destination countries. for international package shipments that do not require express services, ups worldwide expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option. the service is available from more than 80 origin countries to more than 220 countries and territories. for cross-border ground package delivery, we offer ups standard delivery services within europe, between the u.s. and canada and between the u.s. and mexico. europe, our largest region outside of the u.s., accounts for approximately half of international revenue and is one of the primary drivers of our growth. to accommodate the strong potential for growth in small package exports, we made a series of enhancements to both our ground and air networks that help reduce transit time by one to two days and will result in improved exporting opportunities for customers in europe. these expansions and enhancements are part of our commitment to invest nearly $2 billion in our european infrastructure. asia pacific remains a strategic market due to growth rates in intra-asia trade and the expanding chinese economy. to capitalize on these opportunities, we are bringing faster time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-asia trade and reducing transit time from asia to the u.s. and europe. through added flight frequencies, we provide our customers the ability to ship next day to more places in the u.s. and europe - guaranteed - than any other express carrier. we serve more than 40 asia pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances with local delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations. our new joint venture with sf express combines sf's extensive chinese network with ups's delivery capabilities in the u.s. and europe to increase our market presence and help provide chinese enterprises with greater global access. additional international highlights include several air network enhancements, improving time in transit and better addressing growing markets. a new direct flight from the u.s. to dubai improves time in transit to key destinations in the ismea region for shippers throughout the u.s., canada and the americas. europe added flight segments in lithuania, poland and spain, while a dedicated chartered flight from cologne to casablanca continues our investment strategy in morocco, an emerging market. 3 supply chain &amp; freight segment the supply chain &amp; freight segment consists of our forwarding and logistics services, truckload freight brokerage, dedicated contract carriage truckload services, less-than-truckload ( ltl ) services and our financial offerings through ups capital. supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with complementary financial and information services. outsourcing of non-core logistics activity is a strategy more and more companies are pursuing. with increased competition and growth opportunities in new markets, businesses require flexible and responsive supply chains to support their business strategies. we meet this demand by offering a broad array of supply chain services in more than 200 countries and territories. freight forwarding we are one of the largest u.s. domestic air freight carriers and among the top international air freight forwarders globally. we offer a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. additionally, as one of the world's leading non-vessel operating common carriers, we provide ocean freight full-container load, less-than-container load and multimodal transportation services between most major ports around the world. truckload freight brokerage in 2015, we acquired coyote logistics midco, inc. ("coyote"), a u.s.-based truckload freight brokerage company. we successfully integrated this large-scale truckload freight brokerage and transportation management services operation into our supply chain &amp; freight segment and have seen significant synergies in the areas of purchased transportation, backhaul utilization, technology systems and industry best practices. coyote's access to our ups fleet, combined with its broad carrier network, has created a customized capacity solution for all markets, customers and situations. moreover, coyote creates access to ups services (such as air freight, customs brokerage and global freight forwarding) for its customer base. in january 2017, ups acquired u.k.-based freight brokerage firm, freightex. the acquisition of freightex adds a full-scale truckload brokerage and transportation management solution to ups's european portfolio, creating a one-stop shop for shippers throughout europe with freight ranging from parcel to full truckload. the combination of coyote's technology and business model with freightex's market knowledge and established customer and carrier base complements ups's north american truckload brokerage business, as many international shippers know and trust the coyote truckload product. global logistics and distribution we provide value-added logistics services to customers through our global network of company-owned and leased distribution centers and field stocking locations. we leverage a global network of more than 900 facilities in more than 100 countries around the globe to ensure products and parts are in the right place, at the right time. our distribution centers are strategically located near ups air and ground transportation hubs for rapid delivery to consumer and business markets. in 2017, ups began piloting a new integrated transportation-fulfillment solution for small business e-commerce merchants, enabling them to rapidly expand and grow their offerings without additional capital investment. ups post sales relies on central and field stocking sites to support installed and delivered equipment and devices. in 2017, we integrated ups access point locations into our network, offering greater flexibility, more convenience and improved service for our customers. we also began piloting gps tracking capabilities and are converting our primary transportation couriers across the u.s. and canada, which will continue in 2018. since its acquisition in late 2016, maze 1 limited ("marken") has served as the clinical trials logistics subsidiary of ups. marken strengthened its position as the only patient-centric supply chain organization 100 percent dedicated to the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries. marken expanded into new facilities, acquiring touchdown international logistics co., ltd. in taiwan, and launching a new hybrid service that leverages the strength and reach of ups's global network. the focus in 2017 was on accelerating revenue growth through new business wins and realizing cost synergies in areas such as it purchasing, air transportation and insurance premiums. ups express critical provides urgent, secure transportation for time-sensitive and high-value goods. the service complements ups's core parcel and air freight services. it includes same-day, next-flight-out and door-to-door ground services, including specialized charter and hand-carry services for both lightweight and heavyweight shipments. in 2017, ups focused on serving fast-growing industries such as life sciences and aerospace and we will continue this focus in 2018. 4 ups freight ups freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul ltl services in all 50 states, canada, puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands and mexico. ups freight provides reliable ltl service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. ups freight also provides dedicated contract carriage truckload services to select clients. additionally, user friendly shipping, visibility and billing technology offerings, including ups worldship , quantum view and ups billing center, allow freight customers to create electronic bills of lading, monitor shipment progress and reconcile shipping charges. customs brokerage we are among the world's largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees worldwide. in addition to customs clearance services, we also provide trade management and consulting services. in 2017, we acquired sttas, the world's largest dedicated global trade compliance management company. sttas will help us reach our vision of becoming the global broker of choice by expanding the depth of services we provide, as well as our geographic coverage. ups capital ups capital provides financial, insurance and payment services to leverage cash and help protect companies from risk in their supply chains. with services available in more than 21 countries, ups capital and its affiliates support all aspects of the order-to-cash cycle, including financing inventory warehoused overseas, insuring shipments and providing payment solutions. the ups capital suite of insurance services, trade finance and payment solutions helps customers protect their assets and keeps their businesses running smoothly. with the acquisitions of parcel pro and the insured parcel services business of g4s international logistics in 2015, ups capital now offers insured transportation of high value goods including loose stones, finished jewelry and wristwatches. our people the strength of our company is our people, working together with a common purpose. we had more than 454,000 employees (excluding temporary seasonal employees) as of december 31, 2017 , of which 374,000 are in the u.s. and 80,000 are located internationally. our global workforce includes approximately 81,000 management employees (40% of whom are part-time) and 373,000 hourly employees (49% of whom are part-time). as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately 280,000 employees employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the international brotherhood of teamsters ( teamsters ). during 2014, the teamsters ratified a national master agreement with ups that will expire on july 31, 2018. we have approximately 2,700 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the independent pilots association ("ipa"), which runs through september 1, 2021. the economic provisions in the agreement included pay increases, signing bonuses and enhanced pension benefits. our airline mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with teamsters local 2727, which became amendable november 1, 2013. we are currently in negotiations with teamsters local 2727. in addition, approximately 3,100 of our auto and maintenance mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the international association of machinists and aerospace workers ( iam ) that will expire on july 31, 2019. competition ups is a global leader in logistics. we offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and compete with many different local, regional, national and international logistics providers. our competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others, including startups that combine technology with crowdsourcing to focus on local market needs. through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of providers in the supply chain, financial services and information technology industries. 5 competitive strengths our competitive strengths include: global network. we believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. we provide all types of package services (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) through a single pickup and delivery service network. we also have extensive air freight, ocean freight, ground freight and logistics networks that provide additional capabilities in the global transportation and logistics market. our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. global presence. we serve more than 220 countries and territories around the world. we have a significant presence in all of the world's major economies. cutting-edge technology. we are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers enhance their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency. technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. customer need drives our technology offerings. we offer a variety of online service options that enable our customers to integrate ups functionality into their own businesses not only to send, manage and track their shipments conveniently, but also to provide their customers with better information services. we provide the infrastructure for an internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated ups tools directly into their own websites. broad portfolio of services. our portfolio of services helps customers choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many ups services beyond package delivery. for example, our supply chain services such as freight forwarding, truckload brokerage, customs brokerage, order fulfillment and returns management help improve the efficiency of the supply chain management process. customer relationships. we focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. we serve 1.5 million shipping customers and 9.0 million delivery customers daily. cross selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for ups. brand equity. we have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service, reliability and service innovation. the distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the professional courtesy of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity. distinctive culture. we believe that the dedication of our employees comes in large part from our distinctive employee-owner concept. our employee stock ownership tradition dates back to 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees. to encourage employee stock ownership, we maintain several stock-based compensation programs. financial strength. our financial strength gives us the resources to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and facilities; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; to service our obligations and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends, share repurchases and steady share growth. government regulation we are subject to numerous laws and regulations in connection with our package and non-package businesses in the countries in which we operate. certain of these laws and regulations are summarized below. air operations the u.s. department of transportation ( dot ), the federal aviation administration ( faa ) and the u.s. department of homeland security, through the transportation security administration ( tsa ), have regulatory authority over united parcel service co.'s ( ups airlines ) air transportation services. the federal aviation act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for dot and faa authority and the aviation and transportation security act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for tsa aviation security authority. 6 the dot's authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as insurance requirements, discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. the dot also regulates, subject to the authority of the president of the united states, international routes, fares, rates and practices and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of u.s. air carriers abroad. international operating rights for u.s. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreements between the u.s. and foreign governments or, in the absence of such agreements, by principles of reciprocity. we are also subject to current and potential aviation regulations imposed by foreign governments in the countries in which we operate, including registration and license requirements and security regulations. ups airlines has international route operating rights granted by the dot and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. the efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on dot and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions. the faa's authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities and personnel. in 1988, the faa granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable faa regulations. in addition, we are subject to non-u.s. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-u.s. jurisdictions and non-u.s. customs regulation. ups aircraft maintenance programs and procedures, including aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals, are approved for all aircraft under faa regulations. the future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional faa regulatory requirements. the tsa regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the tsa mission statement to protect the nation's transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce. ups airlines, and specified airport and off-airport locations, are regulated under tsa regulations applicable to the transportation of cargo in an air network. in addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with tsa regulations. ups airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the civil reserve air fleet ( craf ) program. our participation in the craf program allows the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) to requisition specified ups airlines wide-body aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. the dod compensates us for the use of aircraft under the craf program. in addition, participation in craf entitles ups airlines to bid for military cargo charter operations. ground operations our ground transportation of packages in the u.s. is subject to regulation by the dot and its agency, the federal motor carrier safety administration (the fmcsa ) and the states' jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of operations, safety, insurance and hazardous materials. we also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the fmcsa, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours of service for drivers. we are subject to similar regulation in many non-u.s. jurisdictions. the postal reorganization act of 1970 created the u.s. postal service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the postal rate commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. the postal accountability and enhancement act of 2006 amended the 1970 act to give the re-named postal regulatory commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the postal service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. we sometimes participate in the proceedings before the postal regulatory commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services. our ground operations are subject to compliance with various cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the u.s. department of homeland security, including regulation by the tsa. customs we are subject to the customs laws in the countries in which we operate, regarding the import and export of shipments, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters. our activities, including customs brokerage and freight forwarding, are subject to regulation by the bureau of customs and border protection, the tsa, the u.s. federal maritime commission and the dot. 7 environmental we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. these laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: proper storage, handling and disposal of waste materials; appropriately managing wastewater and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. we have established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. in addition, we have created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations. pursuant to the federal aviation act, the faa, with the assistance of the environmental protection agency ( epa ), is authorized to establish standards governing aircraft noise. our aircraft fleet is in compliance with current noise standards of the federal aviation regulations. our international operations are also subject to noise regulations in certain countries in which we operate. communications because of our extensive use of radio and other communication facilities in our aircraft and ground transportation operations, we are subject to the federal communications act of 1934, as amended. additionally, the federal communications commission regulates and licenses our activities pertaining to satellite communications. where you can find more information we maintain a website at www.ups.com . our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available through our website www.investors.ups.com as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the sec. however, information on these websites is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the sec. we have adopted a written code of business conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. it is available in the governance section of our investor relations website, located at www.investors.ups.com . in the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the code of business conduct that the sec requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our investor relations website. our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee, executive committee, risk committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available in the governance section of our investor relations website. our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available at www.sustainability.ups.com . we provide the addresses to our internet sites solely for the information of investors. we do not intend for any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this report. 8 item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. you should read these risk factors in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in item 8. general economic conditions, both in the u.s. and internationally, may adversely affect our results of operations. we conduct operations in over 220 countries and territories. our u.s. and international operations are subject to normal cycles affecting the economy in general, as well as the local economic environments in which we operate. the factors that create cyclical changes to the economy and to our business are beyond our control, may adversely impact our credit rating and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model to mitigate the impact of these factors. in particular, our business is affected by levels of industrial production, consumer spending and retail activity and our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by adverse developments in these aspects of the economy. the united kingdom's vote to leave the european union could result in economic uncertainty and instability, resulting in fewer goods being transported globally. we face significant competition which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we face significant competition on a local, regional, national and international basis. our competitors include the postal services of the u.s. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. competition may also come from other sources in the future. some of our competitors have cost and organizational structures that differ from ours and may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to competitive pressures, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. the transportation industry continues to consolidate and competition remains strong. as a result of consolidation, our competitors may increase their market share and improve their financial capacity, and may strengthen their competitive positions. business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance. changes in our relationships with our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have an adverse impact on us. no single customer accounts for 10% or more of our consolidated revenue. we do not believe the loss of any single customer would materially impair our overall financial condition or results of operations; however, collectively, some of our large customers might account for a relatively significant portion of the growth in revenue in a particular quarter or year. these customers can drive the growth in revenue for particular services based on factors such as: new customer product launches; trends in the e-commerce industry, such as the seasonality associated with the fourth quarter holiday season; business mergers and acquisitions and the overall fast growth of a customer's underlying business. these customers could choose to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, demand pricing concessions for our services, require us to provide enhanced services that increase our costs, or develop their own shipping and distribution capabilities. if these factors drove some of our large customers to cancel all or a portion of their business relationships with us, it could materially impact the growth in our business and the ability to meet our current and long-term financial forecasts. our business is subject to complex and stringent regulation in the u.s. and internationally. we are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment and other governmental laws, regulations and policies, both in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. in addition, our business is impacted by laws, regulations and policies that affect global trade, including tariff and trade policies, export requirements, taxes, monetary policies and other restrictions and charges. changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies cannot be predicted. compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations in the u.s. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. 9 increased security requirements could impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an attack or have a security breach. as a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, governments around the world have adopted or may adopt stricter security requirements that will result in increased operating costs for businesses in the transportation industry. these requirements may change periodically as a result of regulatory and legislative requirements and in response to evolving threats. we cannot determine the effect that these new requirements will have on our cost structure or our operating results, and these rules or other future security requirements may increase our costs of operations and reduce operating efficiencies. regardless of our compliance with security requirements or the steps we take to secure our facilities or fleet, we could be the target of an attack or security breaches could occur, which could adversely affect our operations or our reputation. we are subject to increasingly stringent regulations related to climate change, and new regulations could materially increase our operating costs. concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts, particularly internationally but also in the united states, to limit greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions. state and local governments also are increasingly considering ghg regulation. the possibility of increased regulation of ghg emissions potentially exposes our transportation and logistics businesses to significant new taxes, fees and other costs. compliance with such potential regulation or the associated potential costs is further complicated by the fact that various countries and regions are following different approaches to the regulation of climate change. we are subject to international regulation of ghg emissions. for example, in 2009 the european commission approved the extension to the airline industry of the european union emissions trading scheme ( ets ) for ghg emissions. under this decision, all of our flights operating within the european union are covered by the ets requirements, and we are required annually to purchase emission allowances in an amount exceeding the number of free allowances allocated to us under the ets. similarly, in 2016, the international civil aviation organization ( icao ) passed a resolution adopting the carbon offsetting and reduction scheme for international aviation ( corsia ), which is a global, market-based emissions offset program to encourage carbon-neutral growth beyond 2020. a pilot phase is scheduled to begin in 2021 in which countries may voluntarily participate, and full mandatory participation is scheduled to begin in 2027. icao continues to develop details regarding implementation, but compliance with corsia will increase our operating costs. in the u.s., congress in the past several years has considered various bills that would regulate ghg emissions, but these bills so far have not received sufficient congressional support for enactment. nevertheless, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. even in the absence of such legislation, the environmental protection agency ( epa ), spurred by judicial interpretation of the clean air act, could determine to regulate ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. in august 2017, the u.s. announced its intention to withdraw from the paris climate accord, an agreement among 196 countries to reduce ghg emissions, and the effect of that withdrawal on future u.s. policy regarding ghg emissions, on corsia and on other ghg regulation is uncertain. nevertheless, the extent to which other countries implement that agreement could have an adverse direct or indirect effect on our business. we may face additional regulations regarding ghg emissions internationally and in the united states. potential costs to us of increased regulation regarding ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or vehicles prematurely. however, until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. it is reasonably possible that such regulation could significantly increase our operating expenses if we are unable to pass such costs along to our customers. moreover, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the ghgs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. 10 strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. a significant number of our employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the teamsters. in addition, our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide services. we may face a permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. we are exposed to the effects of changing prices of energy, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities. changing fuel and energy costs may have a significant impact on our operations. we require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. we mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our indexed fuel surcharges and we may also enter into hedging transactions from time to time. if we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could adversely impact our operating results. even if we are able to offset the cost of fuel with our surcharges, high fuel surcharges may result in a mix shift from our higher-yielding air products to lower-yielding ground products or an overall reduction in volume. there can be no assurance that our hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices. moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies, including our supply of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as a result of war, actions by producers or other factors beyond our control, which could have an adverse effect on our business. changes in exchange rates or interest rates may have an adverse effect on our results. we conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the united states. our operations in international markets are affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar . we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. the impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting our debt is discussed in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk section of this report. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the valuation of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and the related benefit cost recognized in the income statement. the impact of changes in interest rates on our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and costs is discussed further in the "critical accounting policies and estimates" section of this report. we monitor and manage our exposures to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and make use of derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of changes in these rates on our financial position and results of operations; however, changes in exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. if we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the ups brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, environmental concerns, security matters, political activities and the like, or attempts to connect our company to these sorts of issues, either in the united states or other countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and acceptance of our services by customers. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. 11 a significant data breach or it system disruption could adversely affect our business, financial results, or reputation, and we may be required to increase our spending on data and system security. we rely heavily on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to manage or support a wide variety of important business processes and activities throughout our operations. for example, we rely on information technology to receive package level information in advance of physical receipt of packages, to track items that move through our delivery systems, to efficiently plan deliveries, to execute billing processes, and to track and report financial and operational data. our franchised center locations and businesses we have acquired also are reliant on the use of information technology systems to manage their business processes and activities. in addition, the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our networks and systems involve the storage and transmission of significant amounts of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders, and consequently we are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of european union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, becomes effective in may 2018. other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time. our information technology systems (as well as those of our franchisees and acquired businesses) may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, ransomware attacks, malware attacks, malicious employees or other insiders, telecommunications failures, human errors or catastrophic events. hackers, foreign governments, cyber-terrorists and cyber-criminals, acting individually or in coordinated groups, may launch distributed denial of service attacks or other coordinated attacks that may cause service outages, gain inappropriate or block legitimate access to systems or information, or result in other interruptions in our business. in addition, breaches in security could expose us, our customers and franchisees, or the individuals affected, to a risk of loss or misuse of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, may be difficult to detect for a long time and often are not recognized until launched against a target. as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. we also depend on and interact with the information technology networks and systems of third-parties for many aspects of our business operations, including our customers and franchisees and service providers such as cloud service providers and third-party delivery services. these third parties may have access to information we maintain about our company, operations, customers, employees and vendors, or operating systems that are critical to or can significantly impact our business operations. like us, these third-parties are subject to risks imposed by data breaches and cyber-attacks and other events or actions that could damage, disrupt or close down their networks or systems. security processes, protocols and standards that we have implemented and contractual provisions requiring security measures that we may have sought to impose on such third-parties may not be sufficient or effective at preventing such events, which could result in unauthorized access to, or disruptions or denials of access to, or misuse of, information or systems that are important to our business, including proprietary information, sensitive or confidential data, and other information about our operations, customers, employees and suppliers, including personal information. any of these events that impact our information technology networks or systems, or those of acquired businesses, franchisees, customers, service providers or other third-parties, could result in disruptions in our operations, the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, regulatory scrutiny, and litigation and potential liability for the company. among other consequences, our customers' confidence in our ability to protect data and systems and to provide services consistent with their expectations could be impacted, further disrupting our operations. similarly, an actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable u.s. or foreign data protection regulations or other data protection standards may expose us to litigation, fines, sanctions or other penalties. 12 we have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives, information technology risk management and disaster recovery plans. the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex and sophisticated global cyber threats. despite our best efforts, we are not fully insulated from data breaches and system disruptions. for example, in august 2014, a broad-based malware intrusion targeting retailers throughout the u.s. was discovered and subsequently eradicated at approximately 1% of our franchisees' locations. while the impact of this cyber-attack, including the costs associated with investigation and remediation activities, was not material to our business and our financial results, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future, and our efforts to deter, identify, mitigate and/or eliminate future breaches may require significant additional effort and expense and may not be successful. severe weather or other natural or manmade disasters could adversely affect our business. severe weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters, including storms, floods, fires or earthquakes, epidemics or pandemics, conflicts or unrest, or terrorist attacks, may result in decreased revenues, as our customers reduce their shipments, or increased costs to operate our business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for a quarter or year. any such event affecting one of our major facilities could result in a significant interruption in or disruption of our business. we make significant capital investments in our business of which a significant portion is tied to projected volume levels. we require significant capital investments in our business consisting of aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sorting and other types of equipment to support both our existing business and anticipated growth. forecasting projected volume involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty, such as general economic trends, changes in governmental regulation and competition. if we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect our revenues and profitability. in addition to forecasting our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to adverse economic conditions; however, these adjustments may not be sufficient to allow us to maintain our operating margins in a weak economy. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in international markets. we have significant international operations, and while the geographical diversity of our international operations helps ensure that we are not overly reliant on a single region or country, we are continually exposed to changing economic, political and social developments that are beyond our control. emerging markets are typically more volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and commercial customers, and restrict where we can do business, our shipments to certain countries and the information that we can provide to non-u.s. governments. we are subject to changes in markets and our business plans that have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. our regular review of the carrying value of our assets has resulted, from time to time, in significant impairments, and we may in the future be required to recognize additional impairment charges. changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairments of our intangible, fixed or other assets at any time in the future. in addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets or intangible assets are shorter than we originally estimated. such changes could reduce our net income. employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us. our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in some of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in healthcare costs well in excess of the rate of inflation and historically low discount rates that we use to value our benefit plan obligations. continually increasing healthcare costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or require significant contributions to our benefit plans. the national master agreement with the ibt includes changes that are designed to mitigate certain of these healthcare expenses, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that the failure or success of these efforts will not adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 13 we participate in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. as part of the overall collective bargaining process for wage and benefit levels, we have agreed to contribute certain amounts to the multiemployer benefit plans during the contract period. the multiemployer benefit plans set benefit levels and are responsible for benefit delivery to participants. future contribution amounts to multiemployer benefit plans will be determined only through collective bargaining, and we have no additional legal or constructive obligation to increase contributions beyond the agreed-upon amounts (except potential surcharges under the pension protection act of 2006 in the event that a plan enters critical status, and our contributions are not sufficient to satisfy any rehabilitation plan funding schedule). in future collective bargaining negotiations, we could agree to make significantly higher future contributions to improve the funded status of one or more of these plans. the funded status of these multiemployer plans is impacted by various factors, including investment performance, healthcare inflation, changes in demographics and changes in participant benefit levels. at this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could result from our participation in these plans. in addition to our on-going multiemployer pension plan obligations, we may have additional exposure with respect to benefits earned in the central states pension fund (the "cspf"). ups was a contributing employer to the cspf until 2007 when we withdrew from the plan and fully funded our allocable share of unfunded vested benefits by paying a $6.1 billion withdrawal liability. under a collective bargaining agreement with the international brotherhood of teamsters ( ibt ), ups agreed to provide coordinating benefits in the ups/ibt full time employee pension plan ( ups/ibt plan ) for ups participants whose last employer was ups and who had not retired as of january 1, 2008 ( the ups transfer group ) in the event that benefits are lawfully reduced by the cspf in the future consistent with the terms of our withdrawal agreement with the cspf. in december 2014, congress passed the multiemployer pension reform act ( mpra ), which for the first time ever allowed multiemployer pension plans to reduce benefit payments to retirees, subject to specific guidelines in the statute and government approval. in september 2015, the cspf submitted a proposed pension benefit reduction plan to the u.s. department of the treasury under the mpra. the cspf plan proposed to reduce retirement benefits to the cspf participants, including the ups transfer group. we vigorously challenged the proposed benefit reduction plan because we believed that it did not comply with the law and that the cspf failed to comply with its contractual obligation to obtain our consent to reduce benefits to the ups transfer group under the terms of the withdrawal agreement with the cspf. on may 6, 2016, the u.s. department of the treasury rejected the proposed plan submitted by the cspf, stating that it failed to satisfy a number of requirements set forth in the mpra. the cspf has asserted that it will become insolvent in 2025, which could lead to the reduction of retirement benefits. although there are numerous factors that could affect the cspf's funding status, if the cspf were to become insolvent as they have projected, ups may be required to provide coordinating benefits, thereby increasing the current projected benefit obligation for the ups/ibt plan by approximately $ 4 billion. the cspf has said that it believes a legislative solution to its funding status is necessary, and we expect that the cspf will continue to explore options to avoid insolvency. the potential obligation to pay coordinating benefits from the ups/ibt plan is subject to a number of significant uncertainties, including actions that may be taken by the cspf, the federal government or others. these actions include whether the cspf will submit a revised pension benefit reduction plan or otherwise seek federal government assistance, the extent to which benefits are paid by the pension benefit guaranty corporation, our ability to successfully defend our legal positions as well as the effect of discount rates, cspf asset returns and various other actuarial assumptions. we account for this potential obligation under accounting standards codification topic 715- compensation- retirement benefits ( asc 715 ). under asc 715 we are required to provide a best estimate of various actuarial assumptions, including the eventual outcome of this matter, in measuring our pension benefit obligation at the december 31st measurement date. while we currently believe the most likely solution to this matter and the broader systemic problems facing multiemployer pension plans is intervention by the federal government, asc 715 does not permit anticipation of changes in law in making a best estimate of pension liabilities. our best estimate as of the measurement date of december 31, 2017 does not incorporate this solution. however, if a future change in law resulted in an obligation to provide coordinating benefits under the ups/ibt plan, it may be a significant event, and may require us to remeasure the plan assets and projected benefit obligation of the ups/ibt plan at the date the law is enacted. 14 our best estimate of the next most likely outcome to resolve the cspf's solvency concerns is that the cspf will submit another benefit suspension application under the mpra to forestall insolvency without reducing benefits to the ups transfer group. if the cspf attempts to reduce benefits for the ups transfer group under a mpra filing, we would be in a strong legal position to prevent that from occurring given that these benefits cannot be reduced without our consent and such a reduction, without first exhausting reductions to other groups in the cspf, would be contrary to the statute. accordingly, our best estimate as of the measurement date of december 31, 2017 is that there is no liability to be recognized for additional coordinating benefits of the ups/ibt plan. however, the projected benefit obligation could materially increase as the uncertainties are resolved. we will continue to assess the impact of these uncertainties on the projected benefit obligation of the ups/ibt plan in accordance with asc 715. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. for example, compliance with the 2017 united states tax cut and jobs act (the tax act ) may require the collection of information not regularly produced within our company, the use of provisional estimates in our financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. many aspects of the tax act are unclear and may not be clarified for some time. as regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the tax act, and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our financial position. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation in the jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. in addition, changes in u.s. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, other fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries, including in the u.s., and changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions may materially adversely impact our tax expense and cash flows. we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses and form joint ventures or strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operations, capabilities or technologies and the management of the acquired operations. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate the acquired operations, unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges or charges for impairment of long-term assets that we acquire. insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of the services we provide and the nature of our global operations, including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers' compensation. workers' compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. if the number or severity of claims for which we are retaining risk increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we lose our ability to self-insure these risks, our insurance costs could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. all of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. in order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate forward contracts, options and swaps. a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-a, diesel and unleaded gasoline, as well as changes in the price of natural gas. currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and ltl services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. in order to mitigate the impact of fuel surcharges imposed on us by outside carriers, we regularly adjust the rates we charge for our freight brokerage, inter-modal and truckload services. additionally, we periodically use a combination of option, forward and futures contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , however, we had no commodity contracts outstanding. foreign currency exchange risk we have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. we are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities and cash flows. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. we use forwards as well as a combination of purchased and written options to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. these derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 48 months. we also utilize forward contracts to hedge portions of our anticipated cash settlements of intercompany transactions subject to foreign currency remeasurement. interest rate risk we have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with capital leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. we use a combination of interest rate swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. we also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. our floating-rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily libor) interest rates. we also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods. we have investments in debt securities, as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. additionally, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. sensitivity analysis the following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk embedded in our existing financial instruments. we utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity and equity prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. 59 united parcel service, inc. and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations there are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. while this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. we adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions. shock-test result as of december 31, (in millions) 2017 2016 change in fair value: currency derivatives (1) $ (447 ) $ (437 ) change in annual interest expense: variable rate debt (2) $ 51 $ 49 interest rate derivatives (2) $ 55 $ 58 change in annual interest income: marketable securities (3) $ 2 $ (1) the potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities. (2) the potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances). (3) the potential change in interest income resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate investment holdings. the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in critical accounting policies and estimates . the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our finance receivables due to changes in interest rates was not material as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 . 60risk factors 10 risk factors and may also be described from time to time in our future reports filed with the sec. you should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. item 1. business overview united parcel service, inc. ( ups ) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in seattle, washington. today, we are the world's largest package delivery company, a leader in the u.s. less-than-truckload industry and a premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. we operate one of the largest airlines in the world, as well as the world's largest fleet of alternative-powered vehicles. we deliver packages each business day for 1.5 million shipping customers to 9.1 million receivers ("consignees") in over 220 countries and territories. in 2018 , we delivered an average of 20.7 million pieces per day, or a total of 5.2 billion packages. total revenue in 2018 was $ 71.861 billion . we serve the global market for logistics services, which includes transportation, distribution, contract logistics, ground freight, ocean freight, air freight, customs brokerage, insurance and financing. we have three reporting segments: u.s. domestic package and international package, which together we refer to as our global small package operations, and supply chain &amp; freight, all of which are described below. strategy our market strategy is to provide customers with advanced logistics solutions made possible by a broad portfolio of differentiated services and capabilities expertly assembled and integrated into our customers' businesses. this approach, supported by our efficient and globally balanced multimodal network, enables us to deliver value to our customers and thereby build lasting partnerships with them. customers are able to leverage our broad portfolio of logistics capabilities comprised of: our balanced global presence in north america, europe, middle east, africa, asia pacific and latin america; reliability; and industry-leading technologies and solutions expertise for competitive advantage in markets where they choose to compete. we continue to invest in the expansion of the ups business to serve our existing and prospective customers with a full range of advanced logistics products, services and capabilities across an ever-increasing geographical and industry footprint. achieving our objectives has required new methods and innovative approaches to logistics services, including the acquisition and creation of platform-based businesses, specialized healthcare services such as marken's clinical trial capabilities, a full range of brokerage and transportation insurance services, retail offerings such as ups my choice and more. 1 we have a long history of operating with joint venture and partnership arrangements to provide flexibility as we build scale. we often reevaluate these arrangements to ensure they are optimally designed for our future aspirations. for example, in 2018, we acquired full ownership of our express services unit in india, signaling a new era of opportunity and operational design in a high-growth international market. we closely monitor global trade and economic, geopolitical, regulatory and environmental factors, as well as other areas of risk and change to ensure we quickly adjust to a fast-moving world. we aim to be a disciplined and focused business that purposefully reinvests capital to achieve both long-term strategic benefits and favorable returns. in september 2018, we communicated our commitment to continuous transformation to modernize our business and operations through state-of-the art technology. we see transformation as an ongoing commitment to enhance quality and efficiency as we deliver innovative capabilities and services. our strategic investments are primarily focused in areas we believe will drive growth and lasting profit potential: services and solutions for small and medium-sized businesses. international growth markets. global business to consumer ( b2c ) and business to business ( b2b ) e-commerce. healthcare and life-sciences logistics. operational advancements and efficiencies through our technology-enabled network. in 2018, we added nearly 400,000 pieces per hour of automated sort capacity globally, along with numerous new technologies to help control the network and ensure resources are in the right place at the right time. we have a long history of sound financial management, and our consolidated balance sheet showcases financial strength. cash generation is a significant strength of ups, giving us ample capacity to service our obligations and facilitate distributions to shareowners, reinvest in our business and pursue growth opportunities. reporting segments and products &amp; services global small package our global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, small packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. we serve more than 220 countries and territories around the world along with domestic delivery service in more than 50 countries. we handle packages up to 108 inches in length that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth, as well as palletized shipments weighing more than 150 pounds. all of our package services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies. we handle all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) through one global integrated pickup and delivery network. we combine all packages within our network, unless dictated by specific service commitments. this enables one ups driver to pick up customers' shipments for any of our services at the same scheduled time each day. compared to companies with single service network designs, our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital efficiencies while being more environmentally friendly. we offer same-day pickup of air and ground packages upon request. customers can schedule pickups up to six days a week, based on their specific needs. additionally, our wholly-owned and partnered global network offers roughly 150,000 entry points where customers can tender a package to us at a location or time convenient to them. this combined network includes ups drivers who can accept packages provided to them, ups drop boxes, ups access point locations, the ups store locations, authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters, alliance locations and customer centers attached to ups facilities. some of these locations offer a full array of services, including pickup, delivery and packing options, while others are drop-off locations only. the continued growth of online and mobile shopping has increased our customers' needs for efficient and reliable returns, resulting in our development of a robust selection of returns services that are available in more than 145 countries. the portfolio provides a range of cost-effective label options and a vast network of consumer drop points, as well as a selection of returns technologies that promote efficiency and a friction-free consumer experience. these options vary based on customer need and country and include solutions such as ups returns, as well as more-specialized services such as ups returns exchange. our technologies promote systems integration, client ease of use and visibility of inbound merchandise, which help reduce costs and improve efficiency of our merchants' reverse logistics processes. ups returns manager is an excellent example of this value. 2 we operate one of the largest airlines in the world, with global operations centered at our worldport hub in louisville, kentucky. worldport sort capacity has expanded over the years due to volume growth and centralization efforts. our european air hub is located in cologne, germany, and we maintain asia pacific air hubs in shanghai, china; shenzhen, china and hong kong. our regional air hub in canada is located in hamilton, ontario and our regional air hub for latin america and the caribbean is in miami, florida. our u.s. regional air hubs in dallas, texas; ontario, california; philadelphia, pennsylvania and rockford, illinois support worldport. this network design creates cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facilities, which allows us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft. our u.s. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous u.s. u.s. domestic package reporting segment we are a leader in time-definite, money-back guaranteed, small package delivery services in the united states. we offer a full spectrum of u.s. domestic guaranteed ground and air package transportation services. customers can select from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. ups's air portfolio offers options enabling customers to specify a time-of-day guarantee for their delivery (e.g., by 8:00 a.m., 10:30 a.m., noon, end of day, etc.). customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service that serves every u.s. business and residential address. we deliver more ground packages in the u.s. than any other carrier, with average daily package volume of 14.5 million, most within one to three business days. we also offer ups surepost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, lightweight residential shipments. ups surepost is a contractual residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the ups ground network with final delivery often provided by the u.s. postal service. we utilize our operational technology to identify multiple package delivery opportunities and redirect ups surepost packages for final delivery, improving time in transit, customer service and operational efficiency. we continue to invest in our smart global logistics network. within our facilities, we are expanding automated capacity, driving greater efficiencies and providing additional network flexibilities. we also continue to invest in our air network capacity through aircraft acquisitions. in 2018, we expanded saturday operations and opened 22 new facilities, including regional facilities in the atlanta, indianapolis, phoenix, salt lake city and dallas areas. international package reporting segment our international package reporting segment includes small package operations in europe, asia pacific, canada and latin america and the indian sub-continent, middle east and africa ("ismea"). we offer a wide selection of guaranteed day- and time-definite international shipping services. we offer more guaranteed time-definite express options (express plus, express and express saver) than any other carrier. in 2018, we continued expansion of our express time-definite portfolios: we expanded ups worldwide express to 14 new countries around the globe. ups express now reaches 137 countries with guaranteed mid-day delivery and 57 countries with guaranteed morning delivery with express plus. express saver reaches 220 countries and territories with guaranteed end-of-day delivery. we grew our worldwide express freight midday footprint by five times in 12 european countries by expanding this service to 39,000 new postal codes. worldwide express freight is available from 71 origin countries to 67 destination countries. for international package shipments that do not require express services, ups worldwide expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option. the service is available from more than 80 origin countries to more than 220 countries and territories. for cross-border ground package delivery, we offer ups standard delivery services within europe, between the u.s. and canada and between the u.s. and mexico. europe, our largest region outside of the u.s., accounts for approximately half of international revenue and is one of the primary drivers of our growth. to accommodate the strong potential for growth in small package exports, we made a series of enhancements to both our ground and air networks that help reduce transit time by one to two days and will result in improved exporting opportunities for customers in europe. 3 we are constantly striving to provide our customers with better service. in 2018, we provided our customers with greater flexibility by offering later pick-up times in nearly 52,000 postal codes across europe, creating production and fulfillment benefits. we continue to make major european infrastructure investments, including a $146 million facility in eindhoven, the netherlands, the opening of a $150 million hub in london and the construction of a $100 million hub in paris. these investments are part of ongoing efforts allowing customers using ups standard to reach more than 80 percent of europe's population within two business days. these recent expansions and enhancements are part of our commitment to invest nearly $2 billion in our european infrastructure. asia pacific remains a strategic market due to growth rates in intra-asia trade and the expanding chinese economy. to capitalize on these opportunities, we are bringing faster time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-asia trade and reducing transit time from asia to the u.s. and europe. through added flight frequencies, we provide our customers the ability to ship next day to more places in the u.s. and europe - guaranteed - than any other express carrier. we serve more than 40 asia pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances with local delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations. our joint venture with sf express combines sf's extensive chinese network with ups's delivery capabilities in the u.s. and europe to increase our market presence and help provide chinese enterprises with greater global access. in 2018, we extended cut-off times by four hours for export shipment pickups, lengthening production windows. we upsized four daily flights to our shenzhen intra-asia hub and hong kong to our new boeing 747-8s for greater capacity to support customers with import needs through gateways in shanghai, shenzhen and hong kong. high-growth markets are also a strategic imperative for ups. a new direct flight from the u.s. to dubai improves time in transit to key destinations in the ismea region for shippers throughout the u.s., canada and the americas. markets like india in the ismea region provide new opportunities for growth. in 2018, we made additional investments in india to acquire full ownership of our express services unit, previously a joint venture. this follows the construction of a new facility in hyderabad and an integrated logistics facility in ahmedabad. these enhancements allow customers in ismea to reach markets in the u.s. and europe within a 48-hour delivery window. in addition to these upgrades, we added saturday delivery to seven countries in the region. the additional operating day gives our customers greater flexibility with their operations and scheduling. supply chain &amp; freight supply chain &amp; freight consists of our forwarding, logistics, truckload brokerage, ups freight, ups capital and other businesses. supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with complementary financial and information services. outsourcing of non-core logistics activity is a strategy more companies are pursuing. with increased competition and growth opportunities in new markets, businesses require flexible and responsive supply chains to support their business strategies. we meet this demand by offering a broad array of supply chain services in more than 200 countries and territories. forwarding we are one of the largest u.s. domestic air freight carriers and among the top international air freight forwarders globally. we offer a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. additionally, as one of the world's leading non-vessel operating common carriers, we provide ocean freight full-container load, less-than-container load and multimodal transportation services between most major ports around the world. truckload brokerage coyote logistics midco, inc. ( coyote ), a u.s.-based third party logistics provider, was acquired in august 2015. we successfully integrated this large-scale truckload brokerage and transportation management services operation into our supply chain &amp; freight segment and have seen significant synergies in the areas of purchased transportation, backhaul utilization, technology systems and industry best practices. coyote's access to our ups fleet, combined with its broad carrier network, has created a customized capacity solution for all markets, customers and situations. moreover, coyote creates access to ups services (such as air freight, customs brokerage and global freight forwarding) for its customer base. freightex, a u.k.- based freight brokerage firm, was acquired in january 2017. the acquisition of freightex added a full-scale truckload brokerage and transportation management solution to ups's european portfolio, creating a single-source solution for shippers throughout europe with freight ranging from parcel to full truckload. in 2018, freightex was rebranded to coyote logistics to further leverage the centralized technology and business models with the market knowledge, talent and established customer and carrier bases already in europe. the coyote logistics european division complements ups's north american truckload brokerage business, as many international shippers know and trust the coyote truckload product. 4 logistics we provide value-added fulfillment and transportation management services to customers through our global network of company-owned and leased distribution centers and field stocking locations. we leverage a global network of more than 900 facilities in more than 100 countries around the globe to ensure products and parts are in the right place, at the right time. our distribution centers are strategically located near ups air and ground transportation hubs for rapid delivery to consumer and business markets. in 2017, ups began piloting a new integrated transportation fulfillment solution for small business e-commerce merchants, enabling them to rapidly expand and grow their offerings without additional capital investments. in 2018, we expanded our network to support new business growth by adding more than 1.6 million square feet of distribution capacity. also in 2018, we rolled out new cloud-based transportation and warehouse management software platforms to drive higher operational efficiency and improve service to customers. the result has been better visibility, more rapid onboarding of customers and improved flexibility and response times. building on a 2017 pilot program, in 2018 we expanded a new integrated transportation-fulfillment solution for small business e-commerce merchants in the united states. the program enables small merchants to rapidly expand and grow their online offerings by providing connectivity to multiple marketplaces. ups post sales, our service parts logistics solution, relies on a global network of central and field stocking sites to provide critical spare parts when and where customers need them. in 2018, we implemented new technology to support our implantable medical device solution, which helps ensure surgical kits and devices arrive safely and on time at hospitals and surgery centers. this integrated solution was built in collaboration with webops, a medical device logistics and analytics technology provider, and baxter planning, an inventory planning and optimization solutions provider. we continue to expand ups access point locations into our network, offering greater flexibility, more convenience and improved service for our customers. ups express critical provides urgent, secure transportation for time-sensitive and high-value goods. it includes same-day, next-flight-out and door-to-door ground services, including specialized charter and hand-carry services for both lightweight and heavyweight shipments. ups freight ups freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload ("ltl") services in all 50 states, canada, puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands and mexico. ups freight provides reliable ltl service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. ups freight also provides dedicated contract carriage truckload services to select clients. additionally, user friendly shipping, visibility and billing technology offerings, including ups worldship, quantum view and ups billing center, allow freight customers to create electronic bills of lading, monitor shipment progress and reconcile shipping charges. customs brokerage we are among the world's largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees worldwide. in addition to customs clearance services, we also provide product classification, trade management, duty drawback and consulting services through sttas, a ups company. sttas was acquired in 2017 and is a major differentiator in our ability to become the global broker of choice in all markets important to our customers. in 2017, we also added to our portfolio ups zone solutions, a leader in foreign trade zone administration services in the united states. ups capital ups capital provides financial, insurance and payment services to leverage cash and help protect companies from risk in their supply chains. with services available in 22 countries and territories, ups capital and its affiliates support all aspects of the order-to-cash cycle, including financing inventory warehoused overseas, insuring shipments and providing payment solutions. the ups capital suite of insurance services, trade finance and payment solutions helps customers protect their assets and keeps their businesses running smoothly. ups capital also offers insured transportation of high value goods including loose gemstones, finished jewelry and wristwatches. 5 our people the strength of our company is our people, working together with a common purpose. we had more than 481,000 employees (excluding temporary seasonal employees) as of december 31, 2018 , of which 399,000 are in the u.s. and 82,000 are located internationally. our global workforce includes approximately 85,000 management employees (41% of whom are part-time) and 396,000 hourly employees (50% of whom are part-time). as of december 31, 2018, we had approximately 283,000 employees employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the teamsters. these agreements expired on july 31, 2018. on october 5, 2018, the teamsters declared that the tentative national master agreement for the u.s. domestic package business unit was considered ratified, and will be implemented as soon as five remaining local and supplemental agreements are negotiated and ratified. we remain in the process of negotiating and ratifying four of these local and supplemental agreements which, when ratified, will be retroactive to august 1, 2018. the ups freight business unit national master agreement was ratified on november 11, 2018. we have approximately 2,800 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the independent pilots association ("ipa"), which becomes amendable on september 1, 2021. our airline mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with teamsters local 2727. on february 8, 2019, the airline mechanics who are covered by this agreement voted to ratify a new contract which will become amendable november 1, 2023. in addition, approximately 3,100 of our auto and maintenance mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the international association of machinists and aerospace workers ( iam ) that will expire on july 31, 2019. competition ups is a global leader in logistics. we offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and compete with many different local, regional, national and international logistics providers. our competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others, including startups that combine technology with crowdsourcing to focus on local market needs. through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of providers in the supply chain, financial services and information technology industries. competitive strengths our competitive strengths include: global network. we believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. we provide all types of package services (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) through a single pickup and delivery service network. we also have extensive air freight, ocean freight, ground freight and logistics networks that provide additional capabilities in the global transportation and logistics market. our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. global presence. we serve more than 220 countries and territories around the world. we have a significant presence in all of the world's major economies. cutting-edge technology. we are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers enhance their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency. technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. customer need drives our technology offerings. we offer a variety of online service options that enable our customers to integrate ups functionality into their own businesses not only to send, manage and track their shipments conveniently, but also to provide their customers with better information services. we provide the infrastructure for an internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated ups tools directly into their own websites. broad portfolio of services. our portfolio of services helps customers choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many ups services beyond package delivery. for example, our supply chain services such as freight forwarding, truckload brokerage, customs brokerage, order fulfillment and returns management help improve the efficiency of the supply chain management process. customer relationships. we focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. we serve 1.5 million shipping customers and more than 9.1 million delivery customers daily. cross selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for ups. 6 brand equity. we have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service, reliability and service innovation. the distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the professional courtesy of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity. distinctive culture. we believe that the dedication of our employees comes in large part from our distinctive employee-owner concept. our employee stock ownership tradition dates back to 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees. to encourage employee stock ownership, we maintain several stock-based compensation programs. financial strength. our financial strength gives us the resources to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and facilities; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; to service our obligations and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends, share repurchases and steady share growth. government regulation we are subject to numerous laws and regulations in connection with our package and non-package businesses in the countries in which we operate. certain of these laws and regulations are summarized below. air operations the u.s. department of transportation ( dot ), the federal aviation administration ( faa ) and the u.s. department of homeland security, through the transportation security administration ( tsa ), have regulatory authority over united parcel service co.'s ( ups airlines ) air transportation services. the federal aviation act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for dot and faa authority and the aviation and transportation security act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for tsa aviation security authority. the dot's authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as insurance requirements, discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. the dot also regulates, subject to the authority of the president of the united states, international routes, fares, rates and practices and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of u.s. air carriers abroad. international operating rights for u.s. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreements between the u.s. and foreign governments or, in the absence of such agreements, by principles of reciprocity. we are also subject to current and potential aviation regulations imposed by foreign governments in the countries in which we operate, including registration and license requirements and security regulations. ups airlines has international route operating rights granted by the dot and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. the efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on dot and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions. the faa's authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities and personnel. in 1988, the faa granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable faa regulations. in addition, we are subject to non-u.s. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-u.s. jurisdictions and non-u.s. customs regulation. ups aircraft maintenance programs and procedures, including aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals, are approved for all aircraft under faa regulations. the future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional faa regulatory requirements. the tsa regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the tsa mission statement to protect the nation's transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce. ups airlines, and specified airport and off-airport locations, are regulated under tsa regulations applicable to the transportation of cargo in an air network. in addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with tsa regulations. ups airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the civil reserve air fleet ( craf ) program. our participation in the craf program allows the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) to requisition specified ups airlines aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. the dod is required to compensate us for the use of aircraft under the craf program. in addition, participation in craf entitles ups airlines to bid for other u.s. government opportunities including small package and air freight. 7 ground operations our ground transportation of packages in the u.s. is subject to regulation by the dot and its agency, the federal motor carrier safety administration (the fmcsa ) and the states' jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of operations, safety, insurance and hazardous materials. we also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the fmcsa, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours of service for drivers. we are subject to similar regulation in many non-u.s. jurisdictions. the postal reorganization act of 1970 created the u.s. postal service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the postal rate commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. the postal accountability and enhancement act of 2006 amended the 1970 act to give the re-named postal regulatory commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the postal service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. we sometimes participate in the proceedings before the postal regulatory commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services. our ground operations are subject to compliance with various cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the u.s. department of homeland security, including regulation by the tsa. customs we are subject to the customs laws in the countries in which we operate, regarding the import and export of shipments, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters. our activities in the u.s., including customs brokerage and freight forwarding, are subject to regulation by the bureau of customs and border protection, the tsa, the u.s. federal maritime commission and the dot. our international operations are subject to similar regulatory structures in their respective jurisdictions. environmental we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. these laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: proper storage, handling and disposal of waste materials; appropriately managing wastewater and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. we have established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. in addition, we have created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations. pursuant to the federal aviation act, the faa, with the assistance of the environmental protection agency ( epa ), is authorized to establish standards governing aircraft noise. our aircraft fleet is in compliance with current noise standards of the federal aviation regulations. our international operations are also subject to noise regulations in certain countries in which we operate. communications and data protection because of our extensive use of radio and other communication facilities in our aircraft and ground transportation operations, we are subject to the federal communications act of 1934, as amended. in addition, the federal communications commission regulates and licenses our activities pertaining to satellite communications. there has recently been increased regulatory and enforcement focus on data protection in the u.s. (at both the state and federal level) and in other countries. for example, the european union ( e.u. ) general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018, greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of e.u. law and increases the requirements related to personal data, including individual notice and opt-out preferences and public disclosure of significant data breaches. additionally, violations of the gdpr can result in significant fines. other governments have enacted or are enacting similar data protection laws, and are considering data localization laws that would govern the use of data outside of their respective jurisdictions. where you can find more information we maintain a website at www.ups.com . our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the sec pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available through our website www.investors.ups.com as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the sec. however, information on these websites is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the sec. 8 we have adopted a written code of business conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. it is available in the governance section of our investor relations website, located at www.investors.ups.com . in the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the code of business conduct that the sec requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our investor relations website. our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee, executive committee, risk committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available in the governance section of our investor relations website. our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available at www.sustainability.ups.com . we provide the addresses to our internet sites solely for the information of investors. we do not intend for any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this report. 9 item 1a. risk factors our business, financial condition and results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. in connection with any investment decision, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. you should read these risk factors in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in item 8. general economic conditions, both in the u.s. and internationally, may adversely affect our results of operations. we conduct operations in over 220 countries and territories. our u.s. and international operations are subject to normal cycles affecting the economy in general, as well as the local economic environments in which we operate. the factors that create cyclical changes to the economy and to our business are beyond our control, may adversely impact our credit rating and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model to mitigate the impact of these factors. in particular, our business is affected by levels of industrial production, consumer spending and retail activity and our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by adverse developments in these aspects of the economy. in addition, there remains substantial economic uncertainty arising from the united kingdom's 2016 vote to leave the european union. in 2017 the u.k. government initiated a process to leave the e.u., and the u.k. and the e.u. continue to negotiate the future relationship between the u.k. and the e.u., which could take several years to finalize. the results of these negotiations could result in, among other things, fewer goods being transported globally, volatility in currency exchange rates and further regulations relating to, among other things, trade and aviation. any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we face significant competition which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we face significant competition on a local, regional, national and international basis. our competitors include the postal services of the u.s. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others, including start ups and other companies that combine technologies with crowdsourcing to focus on local market needs. competition may also come from other sources in the future, including as a result of the development of new technologies. some of our competitors may have cost and organizational structures that differ from ours and may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. additionally, to remain competitive, we may have to raise costs to our customers and our customers may not be willing to accept these higher costs. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to competitive pressures, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. the transportation industry continues to consolidate and competition remains strong. as a result of consolidation, our competitors may increase their market share and improve their financial capacity, and may strengthen their competitive positions. business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance. changes in our relationships with our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have an adverse impact on us. no single customer accounts for 10% or more of our consolidated revenue. we do not believe the loss of any single customer would materially impair our overall financial condition or results of operations; however, collectively, some of our large customers might account for a relatively significant portion of the growth in revenue in a particular quarter or year. these customers can drive the growth in revenue for particular services based on factors such as: new customer product launches; trends in the e-commerce industry, such as the seasonality associated with the fourth quarter holiday season; business mergers and acquisitions and the overall fast growth of a customer's underlying business. these customers could choose to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, demand pricing concessions for our services, require us to provide enhanced services that increase our costs, or develop their own shipping and distribution capabilities. if these factors drove some of our large customers to cancel all or a portion of their business relationships with us, it could materially impact the growth in our business and the ability to meet our current and long-term financial forecasts. 10 our business is subject to complex and stringent regulation in the u.s. and internationally, which could increase our operating costs. we are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment and other governmental laws, regulations and policies, both in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. in addition, our business is impacted by laws, regulations and policies that affect global trade, including tariff and trade policies, export requirements, taxes, monetary policies and other restrictions and charges. recently, trade discussions between the u.s. and some of its trading partners have been fluid, and any trade agreements that may be entered into are subject to a number of uncertainties, including the imposition of new tariffs or adjustments and changes to the products covered by existing tariffs. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies cannot be predicted. compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations in the u.s. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. increased security requirements could impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an attack or have a security breach. as a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, governments around the world have adopted or may adopt stricter security requirements that will result in increased operating costs for businesses in the transportation industry. these requirements may change periodically as a result of regulatory and legislative requirements and in response to evolving threats. we cannot determine the effect that these new requirements will have on our cost structure or our operating results, and these rules or other future security requirements may increase our costs of operations and reduce operating efficiencies. regardless of our compliance with security requirements or the steps we take to secure our facilities or fleet, we could be the target of an attack or security breaches could occur, which could materially adversely affect our operations or our reputation. we are subject to increasingly stringent regulations related to climate change, and new regulations could materially increase our operating costs. concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts, particularly internationally but also in the united states, to limit greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions. state and local governments also are increasingly considering ghg regulation. the possibility of increased regulation of ghg emissions potentially exposes our transportation and logistics businesses to significant new taxes, fees and other costs. compliance with such potential regulation or the associated potential costs is further complicated by the fact that various countries and regions are following different approaches to the regulation of climate change. for example, in 2009 the european commission approved the extension to the airline industry of the european union emissions trading scheme ( ets ) for ghg emissions. under this decision, all of our flights operating within the european union are covered by the ets requirements, and we are required annually to purchase emission allowances in an amount exceeding the number of free allowances allocated to us under the ets. similarly, in 2016, the international civil aviation organization ( icao ) passed a resolution adopting the carbon offsetting and reduction scheme for international aviation ( corsia ), which is a global, market-based emissions offset program to encourage carbon-neutral growth beyond 2020. a pilot phase is scheduled to begin in 2021 in which countries may voluntarily participate, and full mandatory participation is scheduled to begin in 2027. icao continues to develop details regarding implementation, but compliance with corsia will increase our operating costs. in the u.s., congress in the past several years has considered various bills that would regulate ghg emissions, but these bills so far have not received sufficient congressional support for enactment. nevertheless, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. even in the absence of such legislation, the environmental protection agency ( epa ), spurred by judicial interpretation of the clean air act, could determine to regulate ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. in august 2017, the u.s. announced its intention to withdraw from the paris climate accord, an agreement among 196 countries to reduce ghg emissions, and the effect of that withdrawal on future u.s. policy regarding ghg emissions, on corsia and on other ghg regulation is uncertain. nevertheless, the extent to which other countries implement that agreement could have an adverse direct or indirect effect on our business. 11 we may face additional regulations regarding ghg emissions internationally and in the united states. potential costs to us of increased regulation regarding ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or vehicles prematurely. we cannot predict the impact any future regulation would have on our cost structure or our operating results. it is possible that such regulation could significantly increase our operating expenses if we are unable to pass such costs along to our customers. moreover, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the ghgs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. a significant number of our employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the teamsters. in addition, our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide services. we may face a permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. we are exposed to the effects of changing prices of energy, as well as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities. changing fuel and energy costs may have a significant impact on our operations. we require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. we mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our indexed fuel surcharges and we may also enter into hedging transactions from time to time. if we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could adversely impact our operating results. even if we are able to offset the cost of fuel with our surcharges, high fuel surcharges may result in a mix shift from our higher-yielding air products to lower-yielding ground products or an overall reduction in volume. there can be no assurance that our hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices. moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies as a result of war, actions by producers or other factors beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. changes in exchange rates or interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our results. we conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the united states. our operations in international markets are affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar . we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. the impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting our debt is discussed in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk section of this report. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the valuation of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and the related benefit cost recognized in the income statement. the impact of changes in interest rates on our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and costs is discussed further in the "critical accounting policies and estimates" section of this report. we monitor and manage our exposures to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and make use of derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of changes in these rates on our financial position and results of operations; however, changes in exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. 12 if we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the ups brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, environmental concerns, security matters, political activities and the like, or attempts to connect our company to these sorts of issues, either in the united states or other countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and acceptance of our services by customers. social media may accelerate and amplify the scope of negative publicity, and increase the challenge of responding to negative claims. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. a significant data breach or it system disruption could adversely affect our business, financial results, or reputation, and we may be required to increase our spending on data and system security. we rely heavily on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to manage or support a wide variety of important business processes and activities throughout our operations. for example, we rely on information technology to receive package level information in advance of physical receipt of packages, to track items that move through our delivery systems, to efficiently plan deliveries, to execute billing processes, and to track and report financial and operational data. our franchised center locations and businesses we have acquired also are reliant on the use of information technology systems to manage their business processes and activities. in addition, the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our networks and systems involve the storage and transmission of significant amounts of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders, and consequently we are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of european union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, became effective in may 2018. other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time. our information technology systems (as well as those of our franchisees and acquired businesses) may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, ransomware attacks, malware attacks, malicious employees or other insiders, telecommunications failures, human errors or catastrophic events. hackers, foreign governments, cyber-terrorists and cyber-criminals, acting individually or in coordinated groups, may launch distributed denial of service attacks or other coordinated attacks that may cause service outages, gain inappropriate or block legitimate access to systems or information, or result in other interruptions in our business. in addition, breaches in security could expose us, our customers and franchisees, or the individuals affected, to a risk of loss or misuse of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, may be difficult to detect for a long time and often are not recognized until launched against a target. as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. we also depend on and interact with the information technology networks and systems of third-parties for many aspects of our business operations, including our customers and franchisees and service providers such as cloud service providers and third-party delivery services. these third parties may have access to information we maintain about our company, operations, customers, employees and vendors, or operating systems that are critical to or can significantly impact our business operations. like us, these third-parties are subject to risks imposed by data breaches and cyber-attacks and other events or actions that could damage, disrupt or close down their networks or systems. security processes, protocols and standards that we have implemented and contractual provisions requiring security measures that we may have sought to impose on such third-parties may not be sufficient or effective at preventing such events, which could result in unauthorized access to, or disruptions or denials of access to, or misuse of, information or systems that are important to our business, including proprietary information, sensitive or confidential data, and other information about our operations, customers, employees and suppliers, including personal information. 13 any of these events that impact our information technology networks or systems, or those of acquired businesses, franchisees, customers, service providers or other third-parties, could result in disruptions in our operations, the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, regulatory scrutiny, and litigation and potential liability for us. among other consequences, our customers' confidence in our ability to protect data and systems and to provide services consistent with their expectations could be impacted, further disrupting our operations. similarly, an actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable u.s. or foreign data protection regulations or other data protection standards may expose us to litigation, fines, sanctions or other penalties. we have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives, information technology risk management and disaster recovery plans. the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex and sophisticated global cyber threats. despite our best efforts, we are not fully insulated from data breaches and system disruptions. for example, in 2014, a broad-based malware intrusion targeting retailers throughout the u.s. was discovered and subsequently eradicated at approximately 1% of our franchisees' locations. while the impact of this cyber-attack, including the costs associated with investigation and remediation activities, was not material to our business and our financial results, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future, and our efforts to deter, identify, mitigate and/or eliminate future breaches may require significant additional effort and expense and may not be successful. severe weather or other natural or manmade disasters could adversely affect our business. severe weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters, including storms, floods, fires or earthquakes, epidemics or pandemics, conflicts or unrest, or terrorist attacks, may result in decreased revenues, as our customers reduce their shipments, or increased costs to operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for a quarter or year. any such event affecting one of our major facilities could result in a significant interruption in or disruption of our business. we make significant capital investments in our business of which a significant portion is tied to projected volume levels. we require significant capital investments in our business consisting of aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sorting and other types of equipment to support both our existing business and anticipated growth. forecasting projected volume involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty, such as general economic trends, changes in governmental regulation and competition. if we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect our revenues and profitability. in addition to forecasting our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to adverse economic conditions; however, these adjustments may not be sufficient to allow us to maintain our operating margins in a weak economy. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in international markets. we have significant international operations, and while the geographical diversity of our international operations helps ensure that we are not overly reliant on a single region or country, we are continually exposed to changing economic, political and social developments that are beyond our control. emerging markets are typically more volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and commercial customers, and restrict where we can do business, our shipments to certain countries and the information that we can provide to non-u.s. governments. we are subject to changes in markets and our business plans that have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. our regular review of the carrying value of our assets has resulted, from time to time, in significant impairments, and we may in the future be required to recognize additional impairment charges. changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairments of our intangible, fixed or other assets at any time in the future. in addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets or intangible assets are shorter than we originally estimated. such changes could reduce our net income. 14 employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us; further cost increases could materially and adversely affect us. our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in some of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in healthcare costs well in excess of the rate of inflation and historically low discount rates that we use to value our benefit plan obligations. continually increasing healthcare costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or require significant contributions to our benefit plans. our national master agreement with the teamsters includes provisions that are designed to mitigate certain of these healthcare expenses, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that the failure or success of these efforts will not materially adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. we participate in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. as part of the overall collective bargaining process for wage and benefit levels, we have agreed to contribute certain amounts to the multiemployer benefit plans during the contract period. the multiemployer benefit plans set benefit levels and are responsible for benefit delivery to participants. future contribution amounts to multiemployer benefit plans will be determined only through collective bargaining, and we have no additional legal or constructive obligation to increase contributions beyond the agreed-upon amounts. however, in future collective bargaining negotiations, we could agree to make significantly higher future contributions to improve the funded status of one or more of these plans. the funded status of these multiemployer plans is impacted by various factors, including investment performance, healthcare inflation, changes in demographics and changes in participant benefit levels. at this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could result from our participation in these plans. in addition to our on-going multiemployer pension plan obligations, we may have additional exposure with respect to benefits earned in the central states pension fund (the "cspf"). ups was a contributing employer to the cspf until 2007 when we withdrew from the cspf and fully funded our allocable share of unfunded vested benefits by paying a $6.1 billion withdrawal liability. under a collective bargaining agreement with the international brotherhood of teamsters ( ibt ), ups agreed to provide coordinating benefits in the ups/ibt full time employee pension plan ( ups/ibt plan ) for ups participants whose last employer was ups and who had not retired as of january 1, 2008 ( the ups transfer group ) in the event that benefits are lawfully reduced by the cspf in the future consistent with the terms of our withdrawal agreement with the cspf. under our withdrawal agreement with the cspf, benefits to the ups transfer group cannot be reduced without our consent and can only be reduced in accordance with applicable law. in december 2014, congress passed the multiemployer pension reform act ( mpra ). this change in law for the first time permitted multiemployer pension plans to reduce benefit payments to retirees, subject to specific guidelines in the statute and government approval. in september 2015, the cspf submitted a proposed pension benefit reduction plan to the u.s. department of the treasury ( treasury ). in may 2016, treasury rejected the proposed plan submitted by the cspf. in the first quarter of 2018, congress established a joint select committee to develop a recommendation to improve the solvency of multiemployer plans and the pension benefit guaranty corporation ( pbgc ) before a november 30, 2018 deadline. while the committee's efforts failed to meet its deadline, the committee made significant progress towards finding solutions that will address the long term solvency of multiemployer pension plans. ups will continue to work with all stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, to implement an acceptable solution. the cspf has said that it believes a legislative solution to its funded status is necessary or that it will become insolvent in 2025, and we expect that the cspf will continue to explore options to avoid insolvency. numerous factors could affect the cspf's funded status and ups's potential obligation to pay coordinating benefits under the ups/ibt plan. any obligation to pay coordinating benefits will be subject to a number of significant uncertainties, including whether the cspf submits a revised mpra filing and the terms thereof, or whether it otherwise seeks federal government assistance, as well as the terms of any applicable legislation, the extent to which benefits are paid by the pbgc and our ability to successfully defend legal positions we may take in the future under the mpra, including the suspension ordering provisions, our withdrawal agreement and other applicable law. we account for the potential obligation to pay coordinating benefits to the ups transfer group under accounting standards codification topic 715- compensation- retirement benefits ( asc 715 ), which requires us to provide a best estimate of various actuarial assumptions, including the eventual outcome of this matter, in measuring our pension benefit obligation at the december 31st measurement date. while we currently believe the most likely outcome to this matter and the broader systemic problems facing multiemployer pension plans is intervention by the federal government, asc 715 does not permit anticipation of changes in law in making a best estimate of pension liabilities. 15 as such, our best estimate of the next most likely outcome at the measurement date is that the cspf submits and implements another benefit reduction plan under the mpra during 2019. we believe any mpra filing would be designed to forestall insolvency by reducing benefits to participants other than the ups transfer group to the maximum extent permitted, and then reducing benefits to the ups transfer group by a lesser amount. we have evaluated this outcome using a deterministic cash flow projection, reflecting updated estimated cspf cash flows and investment earnings, the lack of legislative action and the absence of a mpra filing by the cspf in 2018. as a result, at the december 31, 2018 measurement date, the best estimate of our projected benefit obligation increased by $1.6 billion for coordinating benefits that may be required to be directly provided by the ups/ibt plan to the ups transfer group. the future value of this estimate will be influenced by the terms and timing of any mpra filing, changes in our discount rate, rate of return on assets and other actuarial assumptions, presumed solvency of the pbgc, as well as potential solutions resulting from federal government intervention. any such event may result in a decrease or an increase in the best estimate of our projected benefit obligation. if the uncertainties are not resolved, it is reasonably possible that our projected benefit obligation could increase by approximately $2.4 billion, resulting in a total obligation for coordinating benefits of approximately $4.0 billion as previously disclosed. if a future change in law occurs, it may be a significant event requiring an interim remeasurement of the ups/ibt plan at the date the law is enacted. we will continue to assess the impact of these uncertainties on our projected benefit obligation in accordance with asc 715. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. for example, compliance with the 2017 united states tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) may require the collection of information not regularly produced within our company and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. many aspects of the tax act remain unclear and may not be clarified for some time. in addition, many state jurisdictions continue to issue guidance on the state treatment of certain aspects of the tax act. as regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the tax act, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our tax rates and our financial position. we regularly are under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation in the jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. in addition, changes in u.s. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, other fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries, including the u.s., and changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions may materially adversely impact our tax expense and cash flows. we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses and form joint ventures or strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operations, capabilities or technologies and the management of the acquired operations. accordingly, our financial results could be materially adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate the acquired operations, unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges or charges for impairment of long-term assets that we acquire. 16 insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of the services we provide and the nature of our global operations, including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers' compensation. workers' compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. if the number or severity of claims for which we are retaining risk increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we lose our ability to self-insure these risks, our insurance costs could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. all of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. in order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate forward contracts, options and swaps. a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-a, diesel and unleaded gasoline, as well as changes in the price of natural gas and other alternative fuels. currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and ltl services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. in order to mitigate the impact of fuel surcharges imposed on us by outside carriers, we regularly adjust the rates we charge for our freight brokerage, inter-modal and truckload services. the majority of our contracts for fuel purchases utilize index-based pricing formulas plus or minus a fixed locational/supplier differential. while many of the indices are aligned, each index may fluctuate at a different pace, driving variability in the prices paid for fuel. because of this, our operating results may be affected should the market price of fuel suddenly change by a significant amount or change by amounts that do not result in an adjustment in our fuel surcharges, which can significantly affect our earnings either positively or negatively in the short-term. additionally, we periodically use a combination of option, forward and futures contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , however, we had no commodity contracts outstanding. foreign currency exchange risk we have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. we are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities and cash flows. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. we use forwards as well as a combination of purchased and written options to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. these derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 48 months. we also utilize forward contracts to hedge portions of our anticipated cash settlements of intercompany transactions subject to foreign currency remeasurement. interest rate risk we have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with capital leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. we use a combination of interest rate swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. we also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. our floating-rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily libor) interest rates. we also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods. we have investments in debt securities, as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. additionally, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. sensitivity analysis the following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk embedded in our existing financial instruments. we utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity and equity prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. 62 united parcel service, inc. and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations there are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. while this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. we adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions. shock-test result as of december 31, (in millions) 2018 2017 change in fair value: currency derivatives (1) $ (426 ) $ (447 ) change in annual interest expense: variable rate debt (2) $ 58 $ 51 interest rate derivatives (2) $ 47 $ 55 change in annual interest income: marketable securities (3) $ 1 $ 2 (1) the potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities. (2) the potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances). (3) the potential change in interest income resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate investment holdings. the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in critical accounting policies and estimates . the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our finance receivables due to changes in interest rates was not material as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 . 63risk factors 10 risk factors and may also be described from time to time in our future reports filed with the sec. you should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. item 1. business overview united parcel service, inc. ( ups ) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in seattle, washington. today, we are the world's largest package delivery company, a leader in the u.s. less-than-truckload industry and a premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. the global market for these services includes transportation, distribution, contract logistics, ground freight, ocean freight, air freight, customs brokerage, insurance and financing. we operate one of the largest airlines in the world, as well as the world's largest fleet of alternative-powered vehicles. we deliver packages each business day for 1.6 million shipping customers to 9.9 million delivery customers in over 220 countries and territories. in 2019 , we delivered an average of 21.9 million pieces per day, or a total of 5.5 billion packages. total revenue in 2019 was $ 74.094 billion. we have three reporting segments: u.s. domestic package and international package, which together we refer to as our global small package operations, and supply chain &amp; freight, all of which are described below. strategy our strategy is to provide advanced logistics solutions made possible by a broad portfolio of differentiated services and capabilities integrated into our customers' businesses. this strategy, supported by our efficient global multimodal network, enables us to deliver value to, and build lasting relationships with, our customers. customers are able to leverage our broad portfolio of logistics capabilities comprised of: our extensive presence in north america, europe, middle east, africa, asia pacific and latin america; our reliability; and our industry-leading technologies and solutions. 1 we offer a full range of industry-leading products, services and capabilities across a growing geographical and industry footprint. achieving our objectives has required new methods and innovative approaches to develop and implement logistics services that address customer needs for speed to market, visibility, reliability and greater control. recent examples include: the acquisition or creation of platform-based offerings such as ups e-fulfillment and ware2go; specialized healthcare solutions such as ups premier, which offers prioritized handling and visibility for critical healthcare shipments; a full range of global customs brokerage and shipment insurance services; and offerings such as ups my choice for business that give small- and medium-sized businesses ("smbs") greater control, visibility and data access to improve their customer service. we monitor global trade, economic, geopolitical, regulatory and environmental factors, as well as other factors impacting the business environment. we quickly implement measures to convert risk to opportunity and help our customers adjust their supply chains to a fast-moving world. we have a long history of joint ventures and partnerships that provide operational flexibility and the ability to acquire new capabilities as we build scale, and we also forge new marketplace alliances to stay at the cutting edge of business. for example, our digital access program makes it easier for smbs to use our services by embedding our shipping solutions directly into leading e-commerce platforms. we are a disciplined and focused business that purposefully reinvests capital to achieve both long-term strategic benefits and favorable returns. in september 2018, we communicated our commitment to continuous transformation and to invest to modernize our business and operations through state-of-the art technology. we see transformation as an ongoing commitment to enhance quality and efficiency as we deliver innovative capabilities and services. our strategic investments are primarily focused in areas we believe will drive growth and lasting profit potential: services and solutions for smbs; international growth markets; global business to consumer ( b2c ) and business to business ( b2b ) e-commerce; healthcare and life-sciences logistics; and operational improvements to drive greater productivity and the use of automation to enhance the efficiency of our network. in recent periods, we have added approximately ten million square feet of highly automated capacity in more than forty new and remodeled facilities globally. we have also continued to implement numerous new technologies to help control the network and ensure resources are in the right place at the right time. products and services; reporting segments global small package our global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents, small packages and palletized freight via air and ground services. these services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies. all types of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) are managed through a single, global integrated pickup and delivery network. we combine all packages within our network, unless dictated by specific service commitments. this enables one ups driver to pick up customers' shipments for any services at a scheduled time each day. our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital efficiencies that have less of an impact on the environment than single service network designs. 2 we handle packages up to 108 inches in length that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth, as well as palletized shipments weighing more than 150 pounds. we offer same-day pickup of air and ground packages seven days a week. our global network offers approximately 150,000 entry points where customers can tender a package to us at a location or time convenient to them. this integrated network includes ups drivers who can accept packages, ups drop boxes, ups access point locations, the ups store locations, authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters, alliance locations and customer centers attached to ups facilities. the ups access point network, which includes local small businesses, national retailers and self-serve lockers, allows consumers to ship or redirect packages to an alternate delivery location or drop off pre-labeled packages, including returns. we have expanded the ups access point network to total approximately 21,000 locations within the u.s. and 40,000 globally. we have developed a robust portfolio of returns services in more than 145 countries resulting from the continued growth of online and mobile shopping that has increased our customers' need for efficient and reliable returns. this portfolio provides a range of cost-effective label options and a broad network of consumer drop points, as well as a selection of returns technologies that promote efficiency and a friction-free consumer experience. these options include solutions such as ups returns, as well as more-specialized services such as ups returns exchange. our technologies, such as ups returns manager promote systems integration, customer ease of use and visibility of inbound merchandise, which help reduce costs and improve efficiency in our customers' reverse logistics processes. our global air operations are centered at our worldport hub in louisville, kentucky. our u.s. regional air hubs in dallas, texas; ontario, california; philadelphia, pennsylvania and rockford, illinois support worldport. our european air hub is located in cologne, germany, and we maintain asia pacific air hubs in shanghai, china; shenzhen, china and hong kong. our regional air hub in canada is located in hamilton, ontario and our regional air hub for latin america and the caribbean is in miami, florida. this network design creates cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facilities, which allows us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft. u. s. domestic package reporting segment we are a leader in time-definite, guaranteed small package delivery services in the united states. we offer a full spectrum of u.s. domestic guaranteed air and ground package transportation services, and our u.s. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous united states. ups's air portfolio offers options enabling customers to specify a time-of-day guarantee for their delivery (e.g. by 8:00 a.m., 10:30 a.m., noon, end of day, etc.), while selecting from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service. we deliver more ground packages in the u.s. than any other carrier, with average daily package volume of 15 million, most within one to three business days. we offer ups surepost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, lightweight residential shipments. ups surepost is a residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the ups ground network with final delivery often provided by the u.s. postal service. international package reporting segment our international package reporting segment consists of our small package operations in europe, asia pacific, canada, latin america and the indian sub-continent, middle east and africa ("ismea"). we offer a wide selection of guaranteed day- and time-definite international shipping services. we offer more guaranteed time-definite express options (express plus, express and express saver) than any other carrier. in recent years we have continued the expansion of our express time-definite portfolio, with certain products now reaching as many as 220 countries and territories. for international package shipments that do not require express services, ups worldwide expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option. the service is now available from more than 80 origin countries to more than 220 countries and territories. for cross-border ground package delivery, we offer ups standard delivery services within europe, between the u.s. and canada and between the u.s. and mexico. by expanding our time-definite services, we are better able to offer customers the services they need in the places they do business. for businesses with time-sensitive shipments, these upgrades can help replenish inventories quicker, improve time to market and meet urgent delivery requirements. europe, our largest region outside of the u.s., accounts for approximately half of our international small package segment revenue and is one of the primary drivers of our growth. we continue to make major european infrastructure investments, including new hubs in london, paris and eindhoven, the netherlands. 3 asia pacific also remains a strategic market due to growth rates in intra-asia trade. to capitalize on these opportunities, we have continued to bring faster time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-asia trade and reduced transit times from asia to the u.s. and europe. through added flight frequencies, we now provide our customers the ability to ship next day to more places in the u.s. and europe - guaranteed - than any other express carrier. we serve more than 40 asia pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances with local delivery companies that supplement our owned operations. for example, our joint venture with sf express combines sf's extensive chinese network with ups's delivery capabilities in the u.s. and europe, increasing our market presence and providing chinese enterprises with greater global access. in addition, improvements to time-in-transit for ups express saver and ups worldwide expedited services to shanghai have resulted in faster delivery by a full day to 185 postal codes for packages coming from europe. international high-growth markets remain one of our strategic imperatives. our direct flight from the u.s. to dubai has improved time-in-transit to key destinations in ismea for shippers throughout the u.s., canada and the americas. markets like india also provide opportunities for growth. in support of this, we acquired full ownership of our express services unit in 2018. the unit helps indian businesses, large and small, connect with global markets via the ups network. this follows the opening of two integrated logistics facilities in hyderabad and ahmedabad from where customers are provided a 48-hour delivery timeline to markets in the u.s. and europe. in addition to these upgrades, we have added saturday delivery to seven countries in ismea and expanded express services to india, the middle east and other international high-growth markets ahead of expo 2020 in dubai, offering greater flexibility and competitiveness. supply chain &amp; freight supply chain &amp; freight consists of our forwarding, truckload brokerage, logistics, ups freight, ups capital and other businesses. supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with complementary financial and information services. outsourcing non-core logistics activity is a strategy more companies are pursuing. with increased competition and growth opportunities in new markets, businesses require flexible and responsive supply chains to support their strategies. we meet this demand by offering a broad array of supply chain services in more than 200 countries and territories. forwarding we are one of the largest u.s. domestic air freight carriers and among the top international air freight forwarders globally. we offer a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. additionally, as one of the world's leading non-vessel operating common carriers, we provide ocean freight full-container load, less-than-container load and multimodal transportation services between most major ports around the world. truckload brokerage our acquisition of coyote logistics, llc, a u.s.-based third party logistics provider, in 2015 has resulted in synergies in the areas of purchased transportation, backhaul utilization, technology systems and industry best practices. coyote's access to our fleet, combined with its broad carrier network, has created a customized capacity solution for all markets, customers and situations. in addition, coyote provides access to ups services (such as air freight, customs brokerage and global freight forwarding) for its customer base. our acquisition of freightex, a u.k.- based freight brokerage firm, in 2017 added a full scale truckload brokerage and transportation management solution to our european portfolio, creating a single-source solution for shippers throughout europe with freight ranging from parcel to full truckload. in 2018, freightex was rebranded as coyote logistics to further leverage the centralized technology and business models with the market knowledge, talent and established customer and carrier bases already in europe. coyote logistics's european division complements our north american truckload brokerage business, as many international shippers know and trust the coyote truckload product. logistics we provide value-added fulfillment and transportation management services to customers through our global network of owned and leased distribution centers and field stocking locations. we leverage a global network of more than 1,000 facilities in more than 100 countries to ensure products and parts are in the right place at the right time. 4 our distribution centers are strategically located near ups air and ground transportation hubs for rapid delivery to consumer and business markets. in 2019, we expanded our network to support new business growth by adding 2 million square feet of distribution capacity. we also continued to expand our cloud-based transportation and warehouse management platforms, driving higher operational efficiency and improved customer service. the result has been better visibility, more rapid onboarding of customers and improved flexibility and response times. with the strategic focus of serving the unique, priority-handling needs of healthcare and life sciences customers, u.s. healthcare warehouse and distribution space will total approximately 5 million square feet in 2020. key features in the new facilities include climate controls and validated coolers and freezers for customer products requiring strict temperature-controlled environments. in 2019, we expanded our e-commerce solutions for smbs worldwide, offering streamlined fulfillment and shipping services to consumers in the u.s. and canada. we launched the ups efulfillment program to help sellers quickly and easily manage multiple marketplaces. the program, which is compatible with over 20 e-commerce marketplaces, includes a technology platform and physical fulfillment services, such as storage, order processing, packaging and shipping. ups post sales, our service parts logistics solution, relies on a global network of over 950 central and field stocking sites to provide same and next-day spare parts delivery, enabling customers to get critical equipment back up and running. this solution focuses on customers within the high tech, industrial manufacturing, automotive, healthcare and aerospace sectors. more specific to the healthcare industry, ups has an implantable medical device solution leveraging 36 field stocking sites, which helps ensure surgical kits and devices arrive safely and on time at hospital and surgery centers. implantable medical device firms benefit from outsourcing and optimizing their supply chain with ups, which drives down costs and increases control and service levels. also in 2019, ups announced an expansion of foreign trade zone ( ftz ) management services in the u.s.. since our acquisition of zone solutions in 2017, we have developed a comprehensive ftz solution that helps clients manage the end-to-end process, from dealing with customers to inventory control. the integration of ftz services with our logistics network means ups can designate any of our 42 u.s. distribution centers as a ftz, allowing customers to take advantage of the program's benefits. the strategic utilization of the ftz program provides opportunities for duty elimination and duty deferral. ups freight ups freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload ("ltl") services in all 50 states, canada, puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands and mexico. ups freight provides reliable ltl service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. ups freight also provides dedicated contract carriage truckload services. user friendly shipping, visibility and billing technology offerings, including ups worldship, quantum view and ups billing center, allow freight customers to create electronic bills of lading, monitor shipment progress and reconcile shipping charges. customs brokerage we are among the world's largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees worldwide. in addition to customs clearance services, we provide product classification, trade management, duty drawback and consulting services through sttas, a ups company. ups capital ups capital provides financial, insurance and payment services to support all aspects of the order-to-cash cycle and help protect companies from risk in their supply chains. services are available in 22 countries and territories. ups capital also offers insured transportation of high value goods including loose gemstones, finished jewelry and wristwatches. 5 people the strength of ups is our people, working together with a common purpose. we have more than 495,000 employees (excluding temporary seasonal employees), of which 413,000 are in the u.s. and 82,000 are located internationally. our global workforce includes approximately 87,000 management employees (40% of whom are part-time) and 408,000 hourly employees (49% of whom are part-time). for information regarding employees employed under collective bargaining agreements, see note 6 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. customers as described below, we believe that our focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships is a competitive strength of ups. we serve 1.6 million shipping customers and more than 9.9 million delivery customers daily. for the year ended december 31, 2019, one customer, amazon.com, inc. and its affiliates, represented approximately 11.6% of our consolidated revenues, substantially all of which was within our u.s. domestic package segment. for additional information on our customers, see risk factors - changes in our relationships with any of our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have a material adverse effect on us and note 13 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. competition we offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and compete with many local, regional, national and international logistics providers. we believe our strategy, network and competitive strengths position us well to compete in the marketplace. for additional information on our competitive environment, see "risk factors - our industry is rapidly evolving. we expect to continue to face significant competition, which could adversely affect us". competitive strengths our competitive strengths include: efficient multimodal network. we believe that our integrated global air and ground network is the most extensive in the industry. we provide all types of package services (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial and residential) through a single pickup and delivery network. we also have extensive air freight, ocean freight, ground freight and logistics networks that provide additional capabilities in the global transportation and logistics market. our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization. global presence. we serve more than 220 countries and territories. we have a significant presence in all of the world's major economies. cutting-edge technology. technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. we are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers enhance their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency. we offer a variety of online service options that enable our customers to integrate ups functionality into their own businesses to send, manage and track their shipments conveniently, and also to provide their customers with better information services. we provide the infrastructure for an internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated ups tools directly into their own websites. broad portfolio of services. our portfolio of services helps customers choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many ups services beyond package delivery. for example, our supply chain services such as freight forwarding, truckload brokerage, customs brokerage, order fulfillment and returns management help improve the efficiency of the entire supply chain management process. customer relationships. we focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. we serve 1.6 million shipping customers daily and deliver packages to more than 9.9 million delivery customers daily. cross selling small package and supply chain services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for ups. brand equity. we have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality, reliability and service innovation. the distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the professional courtesy of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity. 6 distinctive culture. we believe that the dedication of our employees comes in large part from our distinctive employee-owner concept. our employee stock ownership tradition dates back to 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, created our first stock ownership program. financial strength. our financial strength allows us to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and facilities; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; to service our obligations and to return value to our shareowners. government regulation we are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. key laws and regulations are summarized below. air operations the u.s. department of transportation ( dot ), the federal aviation administration ( faa ) and the u.s. department of homeland security, through the transportation security administration ( tsa ), have regulatory authority over our air transportation services. the federal aviation act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for dot and faa authority and the aviation and transportation security act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for tsa aviation security authority. the dot's authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as operations, authority, insurance requirements, pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. the dot also regulates, subject to the authority of the president of the united states, international routes, fares, rates and practices and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of u.s. air carriers abroad. international operating rights for u.s. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreements between the u.s. and foreign governments or, in the absence of such agreements, by principles of reciprocity. we are also subject to current and potential aviation regulations imposed by governments in other countries in which we operate, including registration and license requirements and security regulations. we have international route operating rights granted by the dot and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. the efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on dot and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions. the faa's authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including certification, aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities and personnel. in 1988, the faa granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable faa regulations. in addition, we are subject to non-u.s. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-u.s. jurisdictions and non-u.s. customs regulation. ups's aircraft maintenance programs and procedures, including aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals, are approved for all aircraft under faa regulations. the future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional faa regulatory requirements. the tsa regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the tsa mission statement to protect the nation's transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce. our airport and off-airport locations, as well as our personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with tsa regulations. ups airlines, along with a number of other u.s. domestic airlines, participates in the civil reserve air fleet ( craf ) program. our participation in the craf program allows the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) to requisition specified ups airlines aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. the dod is required to compensate us for the use of aircraft under the craf program. in addition, participation in craf entitles us to bid for other u.s. government opportunities including small package and air freight. ground operations our ground transportation of packages in the u.s. is subject to regulation by the dot and its agency, the federal motor carrier safety administration (the fmcsa ). ground transportation also falls under state jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of operations, safety and insurance. our ground transportation of hazardous materials in the u.s. is subject to regulation by the dot's pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration. we also must comply with safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the fmcsa, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours of service for drivers. we are subject to similar regulation in many non-u.s. jurisdictions. 7 the postal reorganization act of 1970 created the u.s. postal service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the postal rate commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. the postal accountability and enhancement act of 2006 amended the 1970 act to give the re-named postal regulatory commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the postal service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. we sometimes participate in proceedings before the postal regulatory commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services. our ground operations are also subject to compliance with various cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the u.s. department of homeland security, including regulation by the tsa. customs we are subject to the customs laws regarding the import and export of shipments in the countries in which we operate, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters. our activities in the u.s., including customs brokerage and freight forwarding, are subject to regulation by the bureau of customs and border protection, the tsa, the u.s. federal maritime commission and the dot. our international operations are subject to similar regulatory structures in their respective jurisdictions. environmental we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. these laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: properly storing, handling and disposing of waste materials; appropriately managing waste water and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. we have established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. in addition, we have created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations. pursuant to the federal aviation act, the faa, with the assistance of the environmental protection agency is authorized to establish standards governing aircraft noise. our aircraft fleet is in compliance with current noise standards of the federal aviation regulations. our international operations are also subject to noise regulations in certain countries in which we operate. communications and data protection because of our extensive use of radio and other communication facilities in our aircraft and ground transportation operations, we are subject to the federal communications act of 1934, as amended. in addition, the federal communications commission regulates and licenses our activities pertaining to satellite communications. there has recently been increased regulatory and enforcement focus on data protection in the u.s. (at both the state and federal level) and in other countries. for example, the european union ( e.u. ) general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018, greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of e.u. law and increases the requirements related to personal data, including individual notice and opt-out preferences and public disclosure of significant data breaches. additionally, violations of the gdpr can result in significant fines. other governments have enacted or are enacting similar data protection laws, and are considering data localization laws that would govern the use of data outside of their respective jurisdictions. where you can find more information we maintain a website at www.ups.com . our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the sec pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available free of charge through our investor relations website at www.investors.ups.com under the heading "financials - sec filings" as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the sec. we have a written code of business conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive and financial officers. it is available under the heading "esg"- governance documents" on our investor relations website. in the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the code of business conduct that the sec requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver in that section of our investor relations website. 8 our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee, executive committee, risk committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available under the heading "esg- governance documents" on our investor relations website. our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available at www.sustainability.ups.com . we provide the addresses to our internet sites solely for information. we do not intend for any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this or any other report we file with the sec. 9 item 1a. risk factors our business, financial condition and results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. in connection with any investment decision, you should carefully consider the following significant factors, which could materially affect us, including impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations, stock price or credit rating, as well as our reputation. you should read these risk factors in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in item 8. these risks are not the only ones we face. we could also be affected by other events, factors or uncertainties that are unknown to us, or that we do not currently consider to be significant risks. changes in general economic conditions, in the u.s. and internationally, may adversely affect us. we conduct operations in over 220 countries and territories. our operations are subject to cyclicality affecting national and international economies in general, as well as the local economic environments in which we operate. the factors that result in general economic changes are beyond our control, and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model to mitigate the impact of these factors. in particular, our business is affected by levels of industrial production, consumer spending and retail activity and we could be materially affected by adverse developments in these aspects of the economy. in addition, there remains substantial economic uncertainty arising from the united kingdom's decision to leave the european union. the u.k. and the e.u. continue to negotiate the future relationship between themselves, which could take several years to finalize. the outcome of these negotiations could result in, among other things, transportation delays, fewer goods being transported globally, additional volatility in currency exchange rates and further regulations relating to, among other things, trade, aviation and the transport of goods. any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect us. our industry is rapidly evolving. we expect to continue to face significant competition, which could adversely affect us. our industry is rapidly evolving, including demand for faster deliveries and increased visibility into shipments. we expect continued significant competition on a local, regional, national and international basis. our competitors include the postal services of the u.s. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers, large transportation and e-commerce companies that are making significant investments in their capabilities, and start ups and other companies that combine technologies with crowdsourcing to focus on local market needs, some of whom may currently be our customers. competition may also come from other sources in the future, including as new technologies are developed. competitors have cost and organizational structures that differ from ours and from time to time may offer services or pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. additionally, to remain competitive, from time to time we may have to raise prices and our customers may not be willing to accept these higher prices. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to competitive pressures, we could be adversely affected. continued transportation industry consolidation may further increase competition. as a result of consolidation, competitors may increase their market share, improve their financial capacity and strengthen their competitive positions. business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could adversely affect us. changes in our relationships with any of our significant customers, including the loss or reduction in business from one or more of them, could have a material adverse effect on us. for the year ended december 31, 2019, one customer, amazon.com and its affiliates, accounted for 11.6% of our consolidated revenues. some of our other significant customers can account for a relatively significant portion of our revenues in a particular quarter or year. these customers can impact our revenues based on factors such as: customer product launches; e-commerce or other industry trends, such as the seasonality associated with the fourth quarter holiday season; business combinations and the overall growth of a customer's underlying business; as well as any disruptions to their businesses. these customers could choose to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors, demand pricing concessions for our services, require us to provide enhanced services that increase our costs, or develop their own shipping and distribution capabilities. in addition, certain of our significant customer contracts include termination rights of either party upon the occurrence of certain events or without cause upon advance notice to the other party. if all or a portion of our business relationships with one or more significant customers were to terminate or be canceled it could materially adversely affect us. 10 our business is subject to complex and stringent laws, regulations and policies which could increase our operating costs. we are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment, safety, privacy and data protection and other governmental laws, regulations and policies, both in the u.s. and in other countries in which we operate. in addition, we are impacted by laws, regulations and policies that affect global trade, including tariff and trade policies, export requirements, taxes, monetary policies and other restrictions and charges. recently, trade discussions between the u.s. and various of its trading partners have been fluid, and existing and future trade agreements are and are expected to continue to be subject to a number of uncertainties, including the imposition of new tariffs or adjustments and changes to the products covered by existing tariffs. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies or decisions or interpretations by authorities applying those laws and regulations, cannot be predicted. compliance with any new laws or regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. any failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or policies in the u.s. or in any of the other countries in which we operate could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect us. increased security requirements impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an attack or have a security breach, which could materially adversely affect us. as a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, governments around the world have adopted or may adopt stricter security requirements that will result in increased operating costs for businesses in the transportation industry. these requirements may change periodically as a result of regulatory and legislative requirements and in response to evolving threats. we cannot determine the effect that any new requirements will have on our cost structure or our operating results, and new rules or other future security requirements may increase our costs of operations and reduce operating efficiencies. regardless of our compliance with security requirements or the steps we take to secure our facilities or fleet, we could also be the target of an attack or security breaches could occur, which could materially adversely affect us. increasingly stringent regulations related to climate change could materially increase our operating costs. regulation of greenhouse gas ("ghg") emissions exposes our transportation and logistics businesses to potentially significant new taxes, fees and other costs. compliance with such regulation, and any increased or additional regulation, or the associated costs is further complicated by the fact that various countries and regions are following different approaches to the regulation of climate change. for example, in 2009 the european commission approved the extension to the airline industry of the european union emissions trading scheme ( ets ) for ghg emissions. under this decision, all of our flights operating within the european union are covered by the ets requirements, and we are required annually to purchase emission allowances in an amount exceeding the number of free allowances allocated to us under the ets. similarly, in 2016, the international civil aviation organization ( icao ) passed a resolution adopting the carbon offsetting and reduction scheme for international aviation ( corsia ), which is a global, market-based emissions offset program to encourage carbon-neutral growth beyond 2020. a pilot phase is scheduled to begin in 2021 in which countries may voluntarily participate, and full mandatory participation is scheduled to begin in 2027. icao continues to develop details regarding implementation, but compliance with corsia will increase our operating costs. in the u.s., congress in the past several years has considered various bills that would regulate ghg emissions, but these bills so far have not received sufficient congressional support for enactment. nevertheless, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. even in the absence of such legislation, the environmental protection agency ( epa ), spurred by judicial interpretation of the clean air act, could determine to regulate ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. in november 2019, the u.s. began the process to withdraw from the paris climate accord, an agreement among 196 countries to reduce ghg emissions. the effect of that withdrawal on future u.s. policy regarding ghg emissions, on corsia and on other ghg regulation is uncertain. nevertheless, the extent to which other countries implement that agreement could have an adverse direct or indirect effect on us. we may face additional regulations regarding ghg emissions internationally and in the united states. potential costs to us of increased regulation regarding ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or vehicles prematurely. we cannot predict the impact any future regulation would have on our cost structure or our operating results. it is possible that such regulation could significantly increase our operating costs and that we may not be willing or able to pass such costs along to our customers. moreover, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the ghgs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. 11 strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect us. many of our u.s. employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the teamsters. our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. in addition, some of our international employees are employed under collective bargaining or similar agreements. strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' needs. as a result, customers may reduce their business or stop doing business with us if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide services. we may face a permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could materially adversely affect us. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. we are exposed to the effects of changing fuel and energy prices, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities. changing fuel and energy costs have a significant impact on our operations. we require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risks associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. we mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our indexed fuel surcharges and through hedging transactions from time to time. if we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could adversely impact our operating results. even if we are able to offset changes in fuel costs with surcharges, high fuel surcharges may result in a mix shift from our higher-yielding air products to lower-yielding ground products or an overall reduction in volume. there can also be no assurance that hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices. moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies as a result of war, actions by producers or other factors beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on us. changes in exchange rates or interest rates may have a material adverse effect on us. we conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the united states. our operations in international markets are affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar . we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. the impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting our debt is discussed in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk section of this report. additionally, changes in interest rates impact the valuation of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and the related benefit cost recognized in the income statement. the impact of changes in interest rates on our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and costs is discussed further in the "critical accounting policies and estimates" section of this report. we monitor and manage our exposures to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and use derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of changes in these rates on our financial position and results of operations; however, changes in exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged and may have a material adverse effect on us. the proposed phase out of the london interbank offer rate ("libor") could have an adverse effect on us. certain of our debt and other financial instruments have interest rates tied to libor. the head of the united kingdom financial conduct authority has announced the desire to phase out the use of libor by the end of 2021. there is currently no definitive information regarding the future utilization of libor or any particular replacement rate. as such, the potential effect of any such event on our cost of capital cannot be determined. in addition, any further changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of libor may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported libor, which could have an adverse impact on extensions of credit held by us and could have a material adverse effect on us. 12 failure to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation could adversely impact us. our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the ups brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, environmental concerns, security matters, political activities and similar matters, or attempts to connect our company to such issues, either in the united states or other countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and use of our services by customers. social media accelerates and amplifies the scope of negative publicity, and makes responding to negative claims more difficult. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have a material adverse effect on us, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. a significant data breach or it system disruption could materially adversely affect us, including requiring us to increase spending on data and system security. we rely heavily on information technology networks and systems, including the internet and a number of internally-developed systems and applications, to manage or support a wide variety of important business processes and activities throughout our operations. for example, we rely on information technology to receive package level information in advance of physical receipt of packages, to track items that move through our delivery systems, to efficiently plan deliveries, to execute billing processes, and to track and report financial and operational data. our franchised center locations and businesses we have acquired also are reliant on the use of information technology systems to manage their business processes and activities. in addition, the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our networks and systems involve the collection, storage and transmission of significant amounts of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders, and consequently we are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of european union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, became effective in may 2018. other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time. our information technology systems (as well as those of our franchisees and acquired businesses) are susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to programming errors, defects or other vulnerabilities, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, ransomware attacks, malware attacks, theft, misconduct by employees or other insiders, telecommunications failures, misuse, human errors or other catastrophic events. hackers, foreign governments, cyber-terrorists and cyber-criminals, acting individually or in coordinated groups, may launch distributed denial of service attacks or other coordinated attacks that may cause service outages, gain inappropriate or block legitimate access to systems or information, or result in other interruptions in our business. in addition, the foregoing breaches in security could expose us, our customers and franchisees, or the individuals affected, to a risk of loss, disclosure or misuse of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, may be difficult to detect and often are not recognized until launched against a target. as a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate measures to prevent any of the events described above. we also depend on and interact with the information technology networks and systems of third-parties for many aspects of our business operations, including our customers, and franchisees and service providers such as cloud service providers and third-party delivery services. these third parties may have access to information we maintain about our company, operations, customers, employees and vendors, or operating systems that are critical to or can significantly impact our business operations. like us, these third parties are subject to risks imposed by data breaches and it systems disruptions like those described above, and other events or actions that could damage, disrupt or close down their networks or systems. security processes, protocols and standards that we have implemented and contractual provisions requiring security measures that we may have sought to impose on such third-parties may not be sufficient or effective at preventing such events. these events could result in unauthorized access to, or disruptions or denials of access to, misuse or disclosure of, information or systems that are important to our business, including proprietary information, sensitive or confidential data, and other information about our operations, customers, employees and suppliers, including personal information. 13 any of these events that impact our information technology networks or systems, or those of acquired businesses, franchisees, customers, service providers or other third-parties, could result in disruptions in our operations, the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, regulatory scrutiny, and litigation and potential liability for us. among other consequences, our customers' confidence in our ability to protect data and systems and to provide services consistent with their expectations could be impacted, further disrupting our operations. similarly, an actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable u.s. or foreign data protection regulations or other data protection standards may expose us to litigation, fines, sanctions or other penalties. we have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives, information technology risk management and disaster recovery plans. the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex and sophisticated global cyber threats. despite our best efforts, we are not fully insulated from data breaches and system disruptions. although to date we are unaware of a data breach or system disruption, including a cyber-attack, that has been material to us, we cannot provide any assurances that such events and impacts will not be material in the future, and our efforts to deter, identify, mitigate and/or eliminate future breaches may require significant additional effort and expense and may not be successful. severe weather or other natural or manmade disasters could adversely affect us. severe weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters, including storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, epidemics, pandemics, conflicts, unrest, or terrorist attacks, may disrupt our business and result in decreased revenues. customers may reduce shipments, or our costs to operate our business may increase, either of which could have a material adverse effect on us. any such event affecting one of our major facilities could result in a significant interruption in or disruption of our business. we make significant capital investments in our business of which a significant portion is tied to projected volume levels. we require significant capital investments in our business consisting of aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sorting and other types of equipment. these investments support both our existing business and anticipated growth. forecasting projected volume involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty, such as general economic trends, changes in governmental regulation and competition. if we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect our revenues and profitability. in addition to forecasting our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to adverse economic conditions; however, these adjustments may not be sufficient to allow us to maintain our operating margins. economic, political, social developments and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect us. we have significant international operations. as a result, we are continually exposed to changing economic, political and social developments that are beyond our control. emerging markets are typically more volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to many laws governing our international operations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and commercial customers, and restrict where we can do business, our shipments to certain countries and the information that we can provide to non-u.s. governments. our failure to manage and anticipate these and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect us. we are subject to changes in markets and our business plans that have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. our regular review of the carrying value of our assets has resulted, from time to time, in significant impairments, and we may in the future be required to recognize additional impairment charges. changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairments of our intangible, fixed or other assets at any time in the future. in addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets or intangible assets are shorter than we originally estimated. such changes have in the past, and may in the future, reduce our net income. 14 employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us; further cost increases could materially and adversely affect us. our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in some of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in healthcare costs well in excess of the rate of inflation and historically low discount rates that we use to value our benefit plan obligations. continually increasing healthcare costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or require significant contributions to our benefit plans. our national master agreement with the teamsters includes provisions that are designed to mitigate certain of these healthcare expenses, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that the failure or success of these efforts will not materially adversely affect us. we participate in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. as part of the overall collective bargaining process for wage and benefit levels, we have agreed to contribute certain amounts to the multiemployer benefit plans during the contract period. the multiemployer benefit plans set benefit levels and are responsible for benefit delivery to participants. future contribution amounts to multiemployer benefit plans will be determined only through collective bargaining, and we have no additional legal or constructive obligation to increase contributions beyond the agreed-upon amounts. however, in future collective bargaining negotiations, we could agree to make significantly higher future contributions to improve the funded status of one or more of these plans. the funded status of these multiemployer plans is impacted by various factors, including investment performance, healthcare inflation, changes in demographics and changes in participant benefit levels. at this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on us could result from our participation in these plans. in addition to our on-going multiemployer pension plan obligations, we may have significant additional exposure with respect to benefits earned in the central states pension fund (the "cspf"). for additional information on our potential additional liabilities related to the cspf, see note 5 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. we may have additional tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and many foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. for example, compliance with the 2017 united states tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) may require the collection of information not regularly produced within our company and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. many aspects of the tax act remain unclear and may not be clarified for some time. in addition, many state jurisdictions continue to issue guidance on the state treatment of certain aspects of the tax act. as regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the tax act, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our tax rates and our financial position. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation in the jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. in addition, changes in u.s. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, other fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries, and changes in taxing jurisdictions' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions may materially adversely impact our tax expense and cash flows. we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could result in significant expenditures and have a material adverse effect on us. our inability to effectively integrate acquired operations and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances could adversely affect us. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses and form joint ventures or strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operations, capabilities or technologies and the management of the acquired operations. accordingly, our financial results could be materially adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate the acquired operations, unanticipated performance issues or transaction-related charges. 15 insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on us. we have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of the services we provide and the nature of our global operations, including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers' compensation. workers' compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. if the number or severity of claims for which we are retaining risk increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we lose our ability to self-insure these risks, our insurance costs could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. all of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. in order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate forward contracts, options and swaps. a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 1 to the audited, consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-a, diesel and unleaded gasoline, as well as changes in the price of natural gas and other alternative fuels. currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and ltl services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. in order to mitigate the impact of fuel surcharges imposed on us by outside carriers, we regularly adjust the rates we charge for our freight brokerage, inter-modal and truckload services. the majority of our contracts for fuel purchases utilize index-based pricing formulas plus or minus a fixed locational/supplier differential. while many of the indices are aligned, each index may fluctuate at a different pace, driving variability in the prices paid for fuel. because of this, our operating results may be affected should the market price of fuel suddenly change by a significant amount or change by amounts that do not result in an adjustment in our fuel surcharges, which can significantly affect our earnings either positively or negatively in the short-term. additionally, we periodically use a combination of option, forward and futures contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , however, we had no commodity contracts outstanding. foreign currency exchange risk we have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. we are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities and cash flows. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi and hong kong dollar. we use forwards as well as a combination of purchased and written options to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. these derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 48 months. we also utilize forward contracts to hedge portions of our anticipated cash settlements of intercompany transactions and interest payments on certain debt subject to foreign currency remeasurement. interest rate risk we have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with finance leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. we use a combination of interest rate swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. we also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. our floating-rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily libor) interest rates. for a discussion of the risks associated with the anticipated cessation of libor, see item 1a. risk factors - "the proposed phase out of the london interbank offer rate ("libor") could have an adverse effect on us". we also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods. we have investments in debt securities, as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. additionally, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. 50 united parcel service, inc. and subsidiaries management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations sensitivity analysis the following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk embedded in our existing financial instruments. we utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and commodity and equity prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. there are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. while this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. we adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions. shock-test result as of december 31, (in millions) 2019 2018 change in fair value: currency derivatives (1) $ (786 ) $ (743 ) change in annual interest expense: variable rate debt (2) $ 64 $ 58 interest rate derivatives (2) $ 37 $ 47 change in annual interest income: marketable securities (3) $ $ 1 (1) the potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities. (2) the potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances). (3) the potential change in interest income resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate investment holdings. the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in critical accounting policies and estimates . the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our finance receivables due to changes in interest rates was not material as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 . 51quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information about market risk can be found in item 7 of this report under the caption market risk.risk factors information about risk factors can be found in item 7 of this report under the caption risk factors . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information about market risk can be found in item 7 of this report under the caption market risk.risk factors information about risk factors can be found in item 7 of this report under the caption risk factors . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information about market risk can be found in item 7 of this report under the caption market risk.risk factors information about risk factors can be found in item 7 of this report under the caption risk factors . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information about market risk can be found in item 7 of this report under the caption market risk.risk factors 11 risk factors the following are some of the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expected results described in our forward-looking statements: the effect of general economic and other conditions in the markets in which we operate, both in the united states and internationally. our operations in international markets are also affected by currency exchange and inflation risks. the impact of competition on a local, regional, national, and international basis. our competitors include the postal services of the u.s. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. our industry is undergoing rapid consolidation, and the combining entities are competing aggressively for business. the impact of complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, labor, employment and other governmental laws and regulations, and the impact of new laws and regulations that may result from increased security concerns following the events of september 11, 2001. our failure to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees. such actions may affect our ability to meet our customers needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions may adversely affect our ability to provide service. we may face permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. 11 table of contents possible disruption of supplies, or unanticipated changes in the prices, of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles, as a result of war, actions by producers, or other factors. we require significant quantities of fuel and are exposed to the commodity price risk associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products. cyclical and seasonal fluctuations in our operating results due to decreased demand for our services. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. all of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. in order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of foreign exchange, interest rate, equity and commodity forward contracts, options, and swaps. the following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to commodity price risk, foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk, and equity price risk. we utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves, and commodity and equity prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. there are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled . a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-a, diesel, and unleaded gasoline. currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and ltl services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. additionally, we use a combination of options contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. the net fair value of such contracts subject to price risk, excluding the underlying exposures, as of december 31, 2008 and 2007 was an asset (liability) of $0 and $(179) million, respectively. the potential loss in the fair value of these derivative contracts, assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the underlying commodity price, would be approximately $0 and $42 million at december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. this amount excludes the offsetting impact of the price risk inherent in the physical purchase of the underlying commodities. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we terminated several energy derivatives and received $87 million in cash. additionally, in the second quarter of 2006, we terminated several energy derivatives and received $229 million in cash. these transactions are reported in other investing activities in the statement of cash flows. as these derivatives qualified for hedge accounting, were designated as hedges, and maintained their effectiveness, the gains associated with these hedges were recognized in income over the original term of the hedges. the hedges that were terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008 will be recognized in the income statement through the first quarter of 2009. foreign currency exchange risk we have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses, and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. we are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities, and cash flows. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, the british pound sterling and the canadian dollar. we use a combination of purchased and written options and forward contracts to hedge cash flow currency exposures. these derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 24 months. as of december 31, 2008 and 2007, the net fair value of the hedging instruments described above was an asset (liability) of $241 and $(42) million, respectively. the potential loss in fair value for such instruments from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $239 and $387 million at december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. this sensitivity analysis 47 table of contents assumes a parallel shift in the foreign currency exchange rates. exchange rates rarely move in the same direction. the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion may overstate the impact of changing exchange rates on assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency. interest rate risk as described in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, we have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with capital leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. we use a combination of derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps and cross-currency interest rate swaps, as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. these swaps are generally entered into concurrently with the issuance of the debt that they are intended to modify, and the notional amount, interest payment, and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. we also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. the net fair value of our interest rate swaps at december 31, 2008 and 2007 was a liability of $388 and $94 million, respectively. our floating rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily libor) interest rates. the potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point change in short-term interest rates applied to our floating rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances) at december 31, 2008 and 2007 would be approximately $41 and $100 million, respectively. we have investments in debt and preferred equity securities (including auction rate securities), as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. the potential change in annual investment income resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates applied to our investments exposed to variable interest rates at december 31, 2008 and 2007 would be approximately $6 and $15 million, respectively. additionally, as described in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. the potential change in the annual income resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates applied to our variable rate finance receivables at december 31, 2008 and 2007 would be immaterial. this interest rate sensitivity analysis assumes interest rate changes are instantaneous, parallel shifts in the yield curve. in reality, interest rate changes are rarely instantaneous or parallel. while this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. we adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. equity price risk we hold investments in various common equity securities that are subject to price risk, and for certain of these securities, we utilize options to hedge this price risk. at december 31, 2008 and 2007, the fair value of such investments was $30 and $35 million, respectively. the potential change in the fair value of such investments, assuming a 10% change in equity prices net of the offsetting impact of any hedges, would be approximately $3 and $4 million at december 31, 2008 and 2007. credit risk the forward contracts, swaps, and options previously discussed contain an element of risk that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreements. however, we minimize such risk exposures for these instruments by limiting the counterparties to financial institutions that meet established credit guidelines. we do not expect to incur any material losses as a result of counterparty default. 48 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements this report includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as believe, project, expect, estimate, assume, intend, anticipate, target, plan, and variations thereof and similar terms are intended to be forward-looking statements. we intend that all forward-looking statements we make will be subject to safe harbor protection of the federal securities laws pursuant to section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. our disclosure and analysis in this report, in our annual report to shareholders and in our other filings with the securities and exchange filings contain some forward-looking statements regarding our intent, belief and current expectations about our strategic direction, prospects and future results. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release as well as oral forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made. however, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made. forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or anticipated results. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described below and elsewhere in this report and those described from time to time in our future reports filed with the securities and exchange commission. you should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. you should read these risk factors in conjunction with management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in item 8. the risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. general economic conditions, both in the u.s. and internationally, may adversely affect our results of operations. we conduct operations in over 200 countries and territories. our u.s. and international operations are subject to normal cycles affecting the economy in general, as well the local economic environments in which we operate. the factors that create cyclical changes to the economy and to our business are beyond our control, and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model to mitigate the impact of these factors. in particular, our business is affected by levels of industrial production, consumer spending and retail activity. to the extent that the current economic recession in the u.s. and worldwide continues for a prolonged period of time or the recovery takes longer than anticipated, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected. 12 table of contents we face significant competition which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we face significant competition on a local, regional, national, and international basis. our competitors include the postal services of the u.s. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. competition may also come from other sources in the future. some of our competitors have cost and organizational structures that differ from ours and may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to competitive pressures, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. the transportation industry continues to consolidate and competition remains strong. as a result of consolidation, our competitors may increase their market share and improve their financial capacity, and may strengthen their competitive positions. business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance. our business is subject to complex and stringent regulation in the u.s. and internationally. we are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment, and other governmental laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. the impact of new laws and regulations cannot be predicted. compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations in the u.s. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. increased security requirements could impose substantial costs on us. as a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, governments around the world have adopted or may adopt stricter security requirements that will result in increased operating costs for businesses in the transportation industry. these requirements may change periodically as a result of regulatory and legislative requirements and in response to evolving threats. we cannot determine the effect that these new requirements will have on our cost structure or our operating results, and these rules or other future security requirements may increase our costs of operations and reduce operating efficiencies. we may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such potential change. concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state, and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. for example, in the past several years, the u.s. congress has considered various bills that would regulate ghg emissions. while these bills have not yet received sufficient congressional support for enactment, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. even in the absence of such legislation, the environmental protection agency, spurred by judicial interpretation of the clean air act, may regulate ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. these costs include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or trucks prematurely. until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. notwithstanding our widely recognized position as a leader in sustainable business practices, it is reasonably possible, however, that such legislation or regulation could impose material costs on us. moreover, even without such legislation or regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the ghgs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. 13 table of contents strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. a significant number of our employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the international brotherhood of teamsters, and our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide service. we may face permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. we are exposed to the effects of changing prices of energy, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities. changing fuel and energy costs may have a significant impact on our operations. we require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. we mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our indexed fuel surcharges and we may also enter into hedging transactions from time to time. if we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could adversely impact our operating results. even if we are able to offset the cost of fuel with our surcharges, high fuel surcharges may result in a mix shift from our higher yielding air products to lower yielding ground products or an overall reduction in volume. if fuel prices rise sharply, even if we are successful in increasing our fuel surcharge, we could experience a lag time in implementing the surcharge, which could adversely affect our short-term operating results. there can be no assurance that our hedging transactions will be effective to protect us from changes in fuel prices. moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies, including our supply of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as a result of war, actions by producers, or other factors which are beyond our control, which could have an adverse affect on our business. changes in exchange rates or interest rates may have an adverse affect on our results. we conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the united states. our operations in international markets are affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound, and canadian dollar. we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. the impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting our debt is discussed in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk section of this report. during 2008, credit markets tightened and the global economy slowed. we are not dependent on the credit markets to fund current operations. we monitor and manage our exposures to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and make limited use of currency exchange contracts, over the counter option contracts, commodity forwards, swaps and futures contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency values, but changes in exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. if we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the ups brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, environmental concerns, security matters, political activities and the like, or attempting to connect our company to these sorts of issues, either in the united states or other countries in which 14 table of contents we operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and acceptance of our services by customers. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. a significant privacy breach could adversely affect our business and we may be required to increase our spending on data security. the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our network involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. breaches in security could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability for the company, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, or disruptions in our operations. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. we have invested in a technology infrastructure which supports our global air and ground network and is critical to support our operations and customer needs. any major disruption to this infrastructure could adversely impact our operations, customers and global commerce. our ability to serve customers and to compete effectively depends to a large part upon the reliability and speed of our technology network. while we have built a multi-layered architecture to support swiftly-expanding worldwide operations and we ensure that our infrastructure is robust, reliable and redundant, there are risks of malicious or unintentional disruptions to the internet or our technology infrastructure which could adversely impact our operations and consequently, our customers. we make significant capital investments in our business of which a significant portion is tied to projected volume levels. we require significant capital investments in our business consisting of aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sorting and other types of equipment to support both our existing and anticipated growth of our business. forecasting projected volume involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty, such as general economic trends, changes in governmental regulation, and competition. if we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect our revenues and profitability. in addition to forecasting our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to adverse economic conditions; however, these adjustments may not be sufficient to allow us to maintain our operating margins in an adverse economy. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in emerging markets. we have significant international operations and while the geographical diversity of our international operations helps ensure that we are not overly reliant on a single region or country, we are continually exposed to changing economic, political and social developments beyond our control. emerging markets are typically more volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to changes in markets and our business plans that have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. our regular review of the carrying value of our assets (including our intangible and tangible assets and investments) has resulted, from time to time, in significant impairments, and we may in the future be required to recognize additional impairment charges. changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or 15 table of contents market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairment write-downs of our intangible or other assets at any time in the future. in addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets are shorter than we originally estimated. such changes could reduce our net income. employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us. with approximately 408,000 employees, including approximately 340,000 in the u.s., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. continued increasing health-care costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or require significant contributions to our pension plans. we participate in a number of trustee-managed multi-employer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. several factors could cause us to make significantly higher future contributions to these plans, including unfavorable investment performance, increases in health care costs, changes in demographics, and increased benefits to participants. at this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity would result from our participation in these plans. we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses and form joint ventures or strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operation, capabilities or technologies and the management of the transacted operations. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate the acquired operations, unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges, or charges for impairment of long-term assets that we acquire. insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of the services we provide and the nature of our global operations, including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers compensation. workers compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. if the number or severity of claims for which we are retaining risk increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we lose our ability to self-insure these risks, our insurance costs could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. 16 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. all of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. in order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of commodity, foreign exchange, and interest rate forward contracts, options, and swaps. a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-a, diesel, and unleaded gasoline. currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and ltl services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. additionally, we periodically use a combination of options contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. as of december 31, 2009 and 2008, however, we had no commodity option contracts outstanding. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we terminated several energy derivatives and received $87 million in cash. this transaction was reported in other investing activities in the statement of cash flows. as these derivatives qualified for hedge accounting, were designated as hedges, and maintained their effectiveness, the gains associated with these hedges were recognized in income over the original term of the hedges, which extended through the first quarter of 2009. foreign currency exchange risk we have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses, and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. we are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities, and cash flows. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, the british pound sterling and the canadian dollar. we use a combination of purchased and written options and forward contracts to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. these derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 24 months. additionally, we utilize cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge the currency risk inherent in the interest and principal payments associated with foreign currency denominated debt obligations. the term of these swap agreements is commensurate with the underlying debt obligations. interest rate risk we have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with capital leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. we use a combination of interest rate swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. the notional amount, interest payment, and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. we also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. our floating rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily libor) interest rates. we also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized each period. we have investments in debt and preferred equity securities (including auction rate securities), as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. additionally, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. 49 table of contents equity price risk we hold investments in various common equity securities that are subject to price risk. these securities are primarily in the form of equity index funds. credit risk the forward contracts, swaps, and options previously discussed contain an element of risk that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreements. however, we minimize such risk exposures for these instruments by limiting the counterparties to financial institutions that meet established credit guidelines. we do not expect to incur any material losses as a result of counterparty default. sensitivity analysis the following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to commodity price risk, foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk, and equity price risk embedded in our existing financial instruments. we utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves, and commodity and equity prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. there are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. while this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. we adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions. (amounts in millions) shock-test result 2009 2008 change in fair value: currency derivatives(1) $ (16 ) $ (239 ) change in annual expense: variable rate debt(2) $ 14 $ 39 interest rate derivatives(2) $ 38 $ 2 (1) the potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities. (2) the potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances). the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in critical accounting policies and estimates . the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our marketable securities due to changes in equity prices and interest rates, respectively, was not material as of december 31, 2009 or 2008. the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our finance receivables due to changes in interest rates was also not material as of december 31, 2009 or 2008. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements this report includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. statements in the future tense, and all statements accompanied by terms such as believe, project, expect, estimate, assume, intend, anticipate, target, plan, and variations thereof and similar terms are intended to be forward-looking statements. we intend that all forward-looking statements we make will be subject to safe harbor protection of the federal securities laws pursuant to section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. our disclosure and analysis in this report, in our annual report to shareholders and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission contain forward-looking statements regarding our intent, belief and current expectations about our strategic direction, prospects and future results. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release as well as oral forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made. however, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made. forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and our present expectations or anticipated results. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described below and elsewhere in this report and those described from time to time in our future reports filed with the sec. you should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. 11 table of contents risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. you should read these risk factors in conjunction with management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in item 8. the risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. general economic conditions, both in the u.s. and internationally, may adversely affect our results of operations. we conduct operations in over 220 countries and territories. our u.s. and international operations are subject to normal cycles affecting the economy in general, as well as the local economic environments in which we operate. the factors that create cyclical changes to the economy and to our business are beyond our control, and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model to mitigate the impact of these factors. in particular, our business is affected by levels of industrial production, consumer spending and retail activity. to the extent that the recovery from the recent recession in the u.s. and in other countries takes longer than anticipated, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected. we face significant competition which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we face significant competition on a local, regional, national, and international basis. our competitors include the postal services of the u.s. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. competition may also come from other sources in the future. some of our competitors have cost and organizational structures that differ from ours and may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to competitive pressures, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. the transportation industry continues to consolidate and competition remains strong. as a result of consolidation, our competitors may increase their market share and improve their financial capacity, and may strengthen their competitive positions. business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance. our business is subject to complex and stringent regulation in the u.s. and internationally. we are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment, and other governmental laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. in addition, our business is impacted by laws and regulations that affect global trade, including tariff and trade policies, export requirements, taxes and other restrictions and charges. changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. the impact of new laws and regulations cannot be predicted. compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations in the u.s. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. increased security requirements could impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an attack or have a security breach. as a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, governments around the world have adopted or may adopt stricter security requirements that will result in increased operating costs for businesses in 12 table of contents the transportation industry. these requirements may change periodically as a result of regulatory and legislative requirements and in response to evolving threats. we cannot determine the effect that these new requirements will have on our cost structure or our operating results, and these rules or other future security requirements may increase our costs of operations and reduce operating efficiencies. regardless of our compliance with security requirements or the steps we take to secure our facilities or fleet, we could be the target of an attack or security breaches could occur, which could adversely affect our operations or our reputation. we may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such potential change. concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state, and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions. for example, in the past several years, the u.s. congress has considered various bills that would regulate ghg emissions. while these bills have not yet received sufficient congressional support for enactment, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. even in the absence of such legislation, the environmental protection agency, spurred by judicial interpretation of the clean air act, may regulate ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. these costs include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or trucks prematurely. until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. notwithstanding our widely recognized position as a leader in sustainable business practices, it is reasonably possible, however, that such legislation or regulation could impose material costs on us. moreover, even without such legislation or regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the ghgs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. a significant number of our employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the international brotherhood of teamsters and our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide services. we may face permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. we are exposed to the effects of changing prices of energy, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities. changing fuel and energy costs may have a significant impact on our operations. we require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. we mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our indexed fuel surcharges and we may also enter into hedging transactions from time to time. if we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could adversely impact our operating results. even if we are able to offset the cost of fuel with our surcharges, high fuel surcharges may result in a mix shift from our higher yielding air products to lower yielding ground products or an overall reduction in volume. if fuel prices rise sharply, even if we are successful in increasing our fuel surcharge, we could experience a lag time in implementing the surcharge, which could adversely affect our short-term operating results. there can be no assurance that our hedging transactions will be effective to protect us 13 table of contents from changes in fuel prices. moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies, including our supply of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as a result of war, actions by producers, or other factors which are beyond our control, which could have an adverse effect on our business. changes in exchange rates or interest rates may have an adverse effect on our results. we conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the united states. our operations in international markets are affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound and canadian dollar. we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. the impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting our debt is discussed in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk section of this report. we monitor and manage our exposures to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and make limited use of currency exchange contracts, over the counter option contracts, commodity forwards, swaps and futures contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency values, but changes in exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. if we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the ups brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, environmental concerns, security matters, political activities and the like, or attempts to connect our company to these sorts of issues, either in the united states or other countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and acceptance of our services by customers. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. a significant privacy breach could adversely affect our business and we may be required to increase our spending on data security. the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our network involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. breaches in security could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability for the company, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, or disruptions in our operations. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. we have invested in a technology infrastructure which supports our global air and ground network and is critical to support our operations and customer needs. any major disruption to this infrastructure could adversely impact our operations, customers and global commerce. our ability to serve customers and to compete effectively depends to a large part upon the reliability and speed of our technology network. while we have built a multi-layered architecture to support swiftly-expanding worldwide operations and we ensure that our infrastructure is robust, reliable and redundant, there are risks of malicious or unintentional disruptions to the internet or our technology infrastructure which could adversely impact our operations and consequently, our customers and global commerce. 14 table of contents we make significant capital investments in our business of which a significant portion is tied to projected volume levels. we require significant capital investments in our business consisting of aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sorting and other types of equipment to support both our existing business and anticipated growth. forecasting projected volume involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty, such as general economic trends, changes in governmental regulation, and competition. if we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect our revenues and profitability. in addition to forecasting our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to adverse economic conditions; however, these adjustments may not be sufficient to allow us to maintain our operating margins in an adverse economy. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in emerging markets. we have significant international operations and while the geographical diversity of our international operations helps ensure that we are not overly reliant on a single region or country, we are continually exposed to changing economic, political and social developments beyond our control. emerging markets are typically more volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to changes in markets and our business plans that have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. our regular review of the carrying value of our assets has resulted, from time to time, in significant impairments, and we may in the future be required to recognize additional impairment charges. changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairment write-downs of our intangible or other assets at any time in the future. in addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets are shorter than we originally estimated. such changes could reduce our net income. employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us. with approximately 400,600 employees, including approximately 330,600 in the u.s., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. continued increasing health care costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or require significant contributions to our pension plans. we participate in a number of trustee-managed multi-employer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. several factors could cause us to make significantly higher future contributions to these plans, including unfavorable investment performance, increases in health care costs, changes in demographics, and increased benefits to participants. at this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity could result from our participation in these plans. we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 15 table of contents we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses and form joint ventures or strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operation, capabilities or technologies and the management of the transacted operations. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate the acquired operations, unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges, or charges for impairment of long-term assets that we acquire. insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of the services we provide and the nature of our global operations, including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers compensation. workers compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. if the number or severity of claims for which we are retaining risk increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we lose our ability to self-insure these risks, our insurance costs could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. all of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. in order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of commodity, foreign exchange, and interest rate forward contracts, options, and swaps. a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-a, diesel, and unleaded gasoline. currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and ltl services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. additionally, we periodically use a combination of option contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, however, we had no commodity option contracts outstanding. in the fourth quarter of 2008, we terminated several energy derivatives and received $87 million in cash. this transaction was reported in other investing activities in the statements of consolidated cash flows. as these derivatives qualified for hedge accounting, were designated as hedges, and maintained their effectiveness, the gains associated with these hedges were recognized in income over the original term of the hedges, which extended through the first quarter of 2009. foreign currency exchange risk we have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses, and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. we are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities, and cash flows. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, the british pound sterling and the canadian dollar. we use a combination of purchased and written options and forward contracts to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. these derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 24 months. additionally, we utilize cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge the currency risk inherent in the interest and principal payments associated with foreign currency denominated debt obligations. the term of these swap agreements is commensurate with the underlying debt obligations. interest rate risk we have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with capital leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. we use a combination of interest rate swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. the notional amount, interest payment, and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. we also utilize 50 table of contents forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. our floating rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily libor) interest rates. we also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods. we have investments in debt and preferred equity securities (including auction rate securities), as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. additionally, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. equity price risk we hold investments in various common equity securities that are subject to price risk. these securities are primarily in the form of equity index funds. credit risk the forward contracts, swaps, and options previously discussed contain an element of risk that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreements. however, we minimize such risk exposures for these instruments by limiting the counterparties to financial institutions that meet established credit guidelines. we do not expect to incur any material losses as a result of counterparty default. sensitivity analysis the following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to commodity price risk, foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk, and equity price risk embedded in our existing financial instruments. we utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves, and commodity and equity prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. there are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. while this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. we adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions. shock-test result (in millions) 2010 2009 change in fair value: currency derivatives(1) $ (89 ) $ (16 ) change in annual expense: variable rate debt(2) $ 10 $ 14 interest rate derivatives(2) $ 58 $ 38 (1) the potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities. (2) the potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances). 51 table of contents the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in critical accounting policies and estimates . the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our marketable securities due to changes in equity prices and interest rates, respectively, was not material as of december 31, 2010 or 2009. the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our finance receivables due to changes in interest rates was also not material as of december 31, 2010 or 2009. 52 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors and may also be described from time to time in our future reports filed with the sec. you should consider the limitations on, and risks associated with, forward-looking statements and not unduly rely on the accuracy of predictions contained in such forward-looking statements. we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, changes in expectations, or the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of those statements. item 1. business overview united parcel service, inc. ( ups ) was founded in 1907 as a private messenger and delivery service in seattle, washington. today, ups is the world largest package delivery company, a leader in the u.s. less-than-truckload industry and the premier provider of global supply chain management solutions. we deliver packages each business day for 1.1 million shipping customers to 7.7 million consignees in over 220 countries and territories. in 2011, we delivered an average of 15.8 million pieces per day worldwide, or a total of 4.01 billion packages. total revenue in 2011 was $53.1 billion. we are a global leader in logistics, and we create value for our customers through solutions that lower costs, improve service and provide highly customizable supply chain control and visibility. customers are attracted to our broad set of services that are delivered as promised through our integrated ground, air and ocean global network. our services and integrated network allow shippers to simplify their supply chains by using fewer carriers and to adapt their transportation requirements and spend as their businesses evolve. across our service portfolio, we also provide control and visibility of customers inventories and supply chains via our ups technology platform. the information flow from ups technology drives improvements for our customers, as well as for ups, in reliability, flexibility, productivity and efficiency. particularly over the last decade, ups has significantly expanded the scope of our capabilities to include more than package delivery. our logistics and distribution capabilities give companies the power to easily expand their businesses to new markets around the world. by leveraging our international infrastructure, ups 1 table of contents enables our customers to bridge time zones, cultures, distances and languages to keep the entire supply chain moving smoothly. we operate approximately 800 logistics facilities, in more than 120 countries, offering warehouse space of 35 million square feet. we serve the global market for logistics services, which include transportation, distribution, forwarding, ground, ocean and air freight, brokerage and financing. our technology seamlessly binds our service portfolio. we have three reportable segments: u.s. domestic package, international package and supply chain &amp; freight, all of which are described below. for financial information concerning our reportable segments and geographic regions, refer to note 12 of our consolidated financial statements. business strategy customers leverage our broad array of services; balanced global presence in north america, europe, asia and latin america; reliability; and industry leading technology for competitive advantage in markets where they choose to compete. we prudently invest to expand our integrated network and our service portfolio. technology investments create user-friendly shipping, e-commerce, logistics management and visibility tools for our customers, while supporting ups ongoing efforts to increase operational efficiencies. our service portfolio and investments are rewarded with among the best returns on invested capital and operating margins in the industry. we have a long history of sound financial management. our balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. as of december 31, 2011, we had a balance of cash and marketable securities of approximately $4.275 billion and shareowners equity of $7.108 billion. our moody and standard &amp; poor short-term credit ratings are p-1 and a-1+, respectively, and our moody and standard &amp; poor long-term credit ratings are aa3 and aa-, respectively. we have a stable outlook from both of these credit rating agencies. cash generation is a significant strength of ups. this gives us strong capacity to service our obligations and allows for distributions to shareowners, reinvestment in our businesses and the pursuit of growth opportunities. we enable and are the beneficiaries of the following trends: expansion of global trade trade across borders is predicted to grow at rates that are at least double the growth rates of u.s. and global domestic production for the foreseeable future. as a result, u.s. and international economies are becoming more inter-connected and dependent on foreign trade. ups plays an important role in global trade and is uniquely positioned to take advantage of trade growth, wherever it emerges. our balanced global presence and productivity enhancing technologies allow customers to effortlessly expand to new markets. we advocate the expansion of free trade, including the passage of regional trade pacts and the removal of trade barriers. free trade is a catalyst for job creation, economic growth and improved living standards; additionally, it propels our growth. emerging market growth as our current and prospective customers seek growth outside of developed markets, they look to emerging markets for expansion. we make long-term, measured investments in markets where our customers choose to grow. our investments are scaled to the local opportunity. we typically follow a pattern of entering a market through importing and exporting, expanding domestically with a partner or alliance, and then ultimately acquiring domestic operations where we see value and return. china is a prime example of this strategy as we continue to clear hurdles that will enable us to realize this vision. our two key air hubs in shanghai and shenzhen support market expansion through increased cargo capacity and faster intra-asia transit times, while enabling our customers to ship later in the day. we link asia to europe with overnight flights from hong kong through our air hub in cologne, germany. taken together, these two trends (expanding global trade and emerging market growth) underscore why our international business is a catalyst for ups growth. 2 table of contents increasing need for vertical expertise in the integrated carrier space we provide repeatable, scalable sector solutions for our customers. we invest in global capabilities and create value propositions for certain industries where there is a fit between our customers needs and our offerings. segments where we bring unique value propositions include health care, high-tech, automotive &amp; industrial manufacturing, retail, government and professional services. the health care industry faces complex challenges, including the continuing expiration of drug patents and the shifting landscape of regulatory requirements and drug pricing controls that differ by country. to counter these threats, many pharmaceutical companies have embarked on global expansion strategies that require infrastructure. ups has aligned our resources to serve these needs through a well-developed supply chain management capability that is designed to satisfy regulatory and compliance requirements. we have built 33 dedicated health care facilities with over 5 million square feet of distribution space. these facilities allow us to provide reliable, secure, cost-effective warehousing and distribution for pharmaceutical firms supply chains, which, in turn, allow them to easily navigate across and within borders. we will continue to expand our vertical offerings, growing not only our physical and market footprint, but also our expertise and technology to support industry specific needs. our growth strategy is to increase the number of customers benefitting from these vertical solutions and gain their associated small package and freight transportation. outsourcing outsourcing supply chain management is becoming more prevalent, as customers increasingly view professional management and operation of their supply chains as a strategic advantage. this trend enables companies to focus on what they do best. we can meet our customers needs for outsourced logistics with our global capabilities in customized forwarding, warehousing, distribution, delivery and post-sales services. as we move deeper into customers supply chains, we do so with a shared vision on how to best serve those who rely on our customers. we integrate our technology for efficiencies, visibility and control to ensure that we execute as promised. retail e-commerce growth throughout much of the world, e-commerce growth continues to outpace traditional lines of business. we continue to create new services, supported by ups technology, that complement the traditional ups premium home delivery service to address the needs of e-commerce shippers and receivers ( consignees ). our offerings span a broad spectrum from cost-sensitive solutions such as surepost, for shipments where economy takes precedence over speed, up to feature-rich solutions, including our new ups my choice service that provides consignees with revolutionary visibility and control of their inbound shipments. with ups my choice, consignees direct the timing and location of their deliveries before a delivery attempt is made. premium features include online delivery planners, detailed driver instructions, alternate delivery locations and a two-hour delivery window. delivery alerts come via the channel chosen by the consignee email, sms text, etc. we strive to give our customers that ship using ups my choice the best delivery experience in the industry delivery on the first attempt, where and when their customers want it. technology technology powers logistics. we bring industry leading ups technology to our customers who, in turn, realize increased productivity, greater control of their supply chains and improved customer experience when they integrate with our technology. customers benefit through offerings such as: ups quantum view which can speed up the revenue cycle (i.e. faster transit times, coupled with confirmation of delivery, allow shippers to collect accounts receivable more quickly), allow for inbound volume planning, manage third party shipping costs, automatically notify customers of incoming shipments, and of course, track shipments and let the customer react if a specific shipment status changes. 3 table of contents flex global view which provides customs alerts, supplier key performance indicators and inventory monitoring. ups paperless invoice which enables customers to submit a commercial invoice electronically when shipping internationally. this eliminates redundant data entry and errors, while reducing customs holds and paper waste. ups import control which gives our customers the ability to initiate their import shipments, define billing terms and assign accounts to charge, and remove commercial invoices prior to delivery to a third-party. ups mobile apps, which allow our customers to track, ship and find ups locations from mobile devices, are among the top downloaded applications for businesses. ups my choice which focuses on the consignee and transforms the residential delivery experience. receivers direct the timing and circumstances of their deliveries. this innovative service, which is unmatched in our industry, is powered by the complex integration of real-time route optimization and other technologies with our delivery network. we believe that ups my choice gives us a substantial lead over the competition. technology, coupled with high-quality ups employees, forms the foundation of our reliability and allows us to take customer experience to a higher level. technology delivers value to our customers and returns to our shareholders. recent advancements that evidence further gains in ups operational efficiency, flexibility, reliability and customer experience include: continuing to rollout telematics to our delivery and tractor-trailer fleet. telematics helps ups determine a truck performance and condition by capturing data on more than 200 elements, including speed, rpm, oil pressure, seat belt use, number of times the truck is placed in reverse and idling time. together, improved data and driver coaching help reduce fuel consumption, emissions and maintenance costs, while improving driver safety. moreover, customers experience more consistent pickup times and more reliable deliveries, thereby enhancing their profitability and competitiveness. implementing our on road integrated optimization and navigation ( orion ) system, which employs advanced algorithms to determine the optimal route for each delivery while meeting service commitments. converting our package cars to keyless entry, where drivers will be able to remotely turn the engine off with a button that will unlock the bulkhead door at the same time. ramping up installations of our next generation small sort ( ngss ) technology, which reduces the amount of memorization required to sort a package, thereby improving productivity and quality. employees sort packages to bins tagged with flashing lights, rather than memorizing addresses, allowing us to dramatically reduce training time. reporting segments and products &amp; services as a global leader in logistics, ups offers a broad range of domestic and export delivery services; the facilitation of international trade; and the deployment of advanced technology to more efficiently manage the world of business. we seek to streamline our customers shipment processing and integrate critical transportation information into their own business processes, helping them to create supply chain efficiencies, better serve their customers and improve their cash flows. 4 table of contents global small package ups global small package operations provide time-definite delivery services for express letters, documents and small packages via air and ground services. we provide domestic delivery services within 56 countries and export services to more than 220 countries and territories around the world. we handle packages that weigh up to 150 pounds and are up to 165 inches in combined length and girth. all of our package services are supported by numerous shipping, visibility and billing technologies. ups handles all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through one global integrated pickup and delivery network. all packages are commingled throughout their journey in our network, except when necessary to meet their specific service commitments. this enables one ups driver to pick up our customers shipments, for any of our services, at the same scheduled time, day after day. compared to companies with single service network designs, our integrated network uniquely provides operational and capital efficiencies while being easier on the environment. upon request, we offer same-day pickup of air and ground packages. based on their needs, customers can schedule pickups for one to five days a week. additionally, we provide our customers with easy access to ups, with over 150,000 domestic and international entry points including: 40,000 drop boxes, 1,000 customer centers, 4,700 independently owned and operated locations of the ups store worldwide, 13,000 authorized shipping outlets and commercial counters, 6,300 alliance locations and 86,300 ups drivers who can accept packages provided to them. with the growth of online shopping, our customers needs for efficient and reliable returns have increased. to this end, we have developed a robust selection of returns services that are available in over 100 countries. options vary based on customer needs and country, and range from cost-effective solutions such as ups returns, which simply enables shippers to provide their customers with a return shipping label, to services as specialized as ups returns exchange. in this new service, the ups driver simplifies product exchanges by delivering a replacement item and picking up a return item in the same stop, and assisting with the re-packaging process. we operate a global ground fleet of approximately 101,000 vehicles, of which our u.s. ground fleet serves all business and residential zip codes in the contiguous u.s. we operate a global air fleet of 523 aircraft, and we are one of the largest airlines in the world. our global air network is centered at our worldport hub in louisville, kentucky. worldport sort capacity, currently at 416,000 packages per hour, has expanded over the years due to volume growth and a centralization effort. this facility is supplemented by our regional u.s. air hubs in hartford, connecticut; ontario, california; philadelphia, pennsylvania; and rockford, illinois. this network design allows for cost-effective package processing in our most technology-enabled facility while enabling us to use fewer, larger and more fuel-efficient aircraft. our largest international air hub is in cologne, germany, with other regional international hubs in miami, florida; canada; hong kong; singapore; taiwan; and china. u.s. domestic package reporting segment ups is a leader in time-definite, money-back guaranteed, small package delivery services. we offer a full spectrum of u.s. domestic guaranteed ground and air package transportation services. depending on the delivery speed needed, customers can select from a range of guaranteed time and day definite delivery options. customers can select from same day, next day, two day and three day delivery alternatives. many of these services offer options that enable customers to specify a time of day cut-off for their delivery (e.g. by 8:30, 10:30, noon, end of day, etc.) customers can also leverage our extensive ground network to ship using our day-definite guaranteed ground service that serves every u.s. business and residential address. ups delivers more ground packages than any other carrier, with over 11 million ground packages delivered on time every day in the u.s., most within one to three business days. 5 table of contents ups also offers ups surepost, an economy residential ground service for customers with non-urgent, light weight residential shipments. ups surepost is a contractual residential ground service that combines the consistency and reliability of the ups ground network with final delivery provided by the u.s. postal service. international package reporting segment our international package reporting segment includes the small package operations in europe, asia, canada and latin america. ups offers a wide selection of guaranteed, day and time-definite international shipping services. we offer three guaranteed time-definite express options (express plus, express and express saver) to more locations than any other carrier. for international shipments that do not require express services, ups worldwide expedited offers a reliable, deferred, guaranteed day-definite service option. for cross-border ground package delivery, we offer ups transborder standard delivery services within europe, between the u.s. and canada and between the u.s. and mexico. europe, our largest region outside of the u.s., accounts for roughly half of international revenue and is one of our growth engines. factors contributing to this are the highly fragmented nature of the market and the fact that exports make up a significant part of europe gdp. given our well-known, trusted brand and distinctive integrated network, we believe there is continued strong potential for growth in small package exports in germany, the u.k., france, italy, spain and the netherlands. due to our strong growth, we are expanding our main european air hub in cologne by 70% to a capacity of 190,000 packages per hour. expansion will come in stages; the first stage was completed in the fourth quarter of 2011 with the final stage targeted for 2013. asia is another growth engine due to attractive growth rates in intra-asian trade and the dynamic chinese economy. we are bringing faster time-in-transit to customers focused on intra-asian trade, reducing transit days from asia to europe, and continuing to build our china presence. our recent china investments include: material outlays to add capabilities, facilities and quality employees. we are building awareness and relevance while demonstrating superior ups performance. opened an air hub in shenzhen in mid-2010. added intra-asia and around-the-world flight frequencies allowing customers to reach more of europe the next day, guaranteed, than any other express carrier. we serve more than 40 asia-pacific countries and territories through more than two dozen alliances with local delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations. in vietnam, our volume has doubled since entering into an alliance with a local partner in 2010. additional international highlights include the following: since our 2009 acquisition of unsped paket servisi san ve ticaret a.s. in turkey, we have seen double-digit export and domestic growth in that country. in south and central america, we benefit from the strong regional economy. our offerings include express package delivery in major cities as well as distribution and forwarding. we continue to grow our business organically in mexico. we are well positioned with freight, domestic, international and distribution services. in february 2012 we broadened our european business-to-consumer service portfolio by acquiring kiala s.a., a belgium-based developer of a platform that enables e-commerce retailers to offer consumers the option of having goods delivered to a convenient retail location. 6 table of contents supply chain &amp; freight reporting segment the supply chain &amp; freight segment consists of our forwarding and logistics services, our ups freight business, and our financial offerings through ups capital. we manage supply chains in over 195 countries and territories, with approximately 35 million square feet of distribution space worldwide. supply chain complexity creates demand for a global service offering that incorporates transportation, distribution and international trade and brokerage services, with financial and information services. we meet this demand by offering a broad array of services, which are described below. the 2011 acquisition of italy-based pieffe group ( pieffe ) supports our global health care strategy, which has seen us make investments to better serve our growing customer base in the pharmaceutical, biotech and medical device industries. previously family-owned, pieffe is a pharmaceutical logistics business with more than 35 years of experience offering high-quality storage, distribution and cold chain solutions to some of the world leading pharmaceutical brands. freight forwarding ups is the second largest u.s. domestic air freight carrier and among the top six international air freight forwarders globally. ups offers a portfolio of guaranteed and non-guaranteed global air freight services. additionally, as one of the world leading non-vessel operating common carriers, ups also provides ocean freight full-container load and less-than container load shipments between most major ports around the world. customs brokerage ups is among the world largest customs brokers by both the number of shipments processed annually and by the number of dedicated brokerage employees worldwide. with decades of customs brokerage experience, we provide our customers with customs clearance, trade management and international trade consulting services. logistics and distribution ups logistics offers the following: distribution services: ups comprehensive distribution services are provided through a global network of distribution centers that manage the flow of goods from receiving to storage and order processing to shipment, allowing companies to save time and money by minimizing their capital investment and positioning products closer to their customers. post sales: post sales services support goods after they have been delivered or installed in the field. the four core service offerings within post sales include: 1) critical parts fulfillment; 2) reverse logistics; 3) test, repair, and refurbish; and 4) network and parts planning. we leverage our global distribution network of 600+ field stocking locations to ensure that the right type and quantity of our customers stock is in the right locations to meet the needs of their end-customers. our customers are able to minimize spend and maximize service. ups mail innovations: ups mail innovations offers an efficient, cost-effective method for sending lightweight parcels and flat mail to global addresses from the u.s. we pick up customers domestic and international mail, sort, post, manifest and then expedite the secured mail containers to the destination postal service for last-mile delivery. 7 table of contents ups freight ups freight offers regional, inter-regional and long-haul less-than-truckload ( ltl ) services, as well as full truckload services, in all 50 states, canada, puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands and mexico. ups freight provides reliable ltl service backed by a day-definite, on-time guarantee at no additional cost. additionally, many user-friendly small package technology offerings are also available for freight. applications such as ups worldship, billing center, and quantum view allow customers to process and track ltl shipments, create electronic bills of lading and reconcile billing. ups capital ups capital offers a range of services, including export and import financing to help improve cash flow, risk mitigation offerings to protect goods, as well as payment solutions that help speed the conversion cycle of payments. sustainability ups business and corporate responsibility strategies pursue a common interest to increase the vitality and environmental sustainability of the global economy by aggregating the shipping activity of millions of businesses and individuals worldwide into a single, highly efficient logistics network. this provides benefits to: ups, by ensuring strong demand for our services. the economy, by making global supply chains more efficient and less expensive. the environment, by enabling our global customers to leverage ups carbon efficiency and thereby reduce the carbon intensity of their supply chains. we pursue sustainable business practices worldwide through operational efficiency, fleet advances, facility engineering projects and conservation enabling technology and service offerings. we help our customers to do the same. sustainability highlights in 2011 include: rated 1 st in social responsibility in fortune magazine 2011 world most admired for the delivery industry. one of corporate responsibility 100 best corporate citizens and one of the best corporate citizens in government contracting . recognized by ethisphere institute as one of the world most ethical companies . named to interbrands best global brands for the 7th consecutive year. we ranked in the top 100 in brand value around the world (#27) and were the only company in the transportation sector to make the list in 2011. recognized as a constituent of the dow jones sustainability index for the 10th consecutive year. one of america top organizations for multicultural business opportunities by diversitybusiness.com. achieved a score of 99% in response to the carbon disclosure project. our carbon disclosure leadership index score is the highest in the u.s. and ties with only three other companies globally. recognized by climatecounts.org as best company in the consumer shipping sector for the 3rd consecutive year. more information is available on the ups sustainability website. 8 table of contents community we believe that strong communities are vital to the success of our company. by combining our philanthropy with the volunteer time and talents of our employees, ups helps drive positive change for organizations and communities in need across the globe. the highlights of our corporate citizenship efforts in 2011 include: local non-profits around the world received more than 1.6 million hours of volunteer service from ups employees participating in our neighbor-to-neighbor program. the ups foundation, our charitable organization, oversaw $97 million in donations of cash and in-kind services to global causes primarily in four focus areas community safety, environmental sustainability, diversity and volunteerism. ups led all u.s. companies in united way donations last year with more than $55 million, and surpassed $1 billion in cumulative donations to united way. ups continued to help save lives through our ups humanitarian relief program by providing our logistics expertise and resources to aid the famine-stricken horn of africa and areas impacted by the japan earthquake. thousands of teenagers and novice drivers in the u.s., canada, the u.k., and germany participated in ups road code. this safety program for new drivers features ups employees as instructors a role where they get to share driving knowledge and safety tips amassed over our 104-year history of safe driving. reputation many of our customers trust ups to extend their brand. we were pleased that ups earned the top rating in our industry on the american customer satisfaction index in 2011. as noted in millward brown and interbrand top brand rankings, we have one of the most valuable brands in the world. ups also has been named to industry leading positions in fortune magazine most admired and harris interactive reputation quotient surveys. employees the strength of our company is our people, working together with a common purpose. we had approximately 398,000 employees as of december 31, 2011, of which 323,000 are in the u.s. and 75,000 are located internationally. our global workforce includes approximately 71,000 management employees (36% of whom are part-time) and 327,000 hourly employees (46% of whom are part-time). as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately 245,000 employees employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the international brotherhood of teamsters ( teamsters ). these agreements run through july 31, 2013. we have approximately 2,700 pilots who are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the independent pilots association ( ipa ), which became amendable at the end of 2011. our airline mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with teamsters local 2727, which runs through november 1, 2013. in addition, approximately 3,200 of our ground mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements with the international association of machinists and aerospace workers ( iam ). our agreement with the iam runs through july 31, 2014. the experience of our management team continues to be an organizational strength. nearly 40% of our full-time managers have more than 20 years of service with ups. 9 table of contents we believe that our relations with our employees are good. we periodically survey all our employees to determine their level of job satisfaction. areas of concern receive management attention as we strive to keep ups the employer of choice among our employees. we consistently receive numerous awards and wide recognition as an employer-of-choice, resulting in part from our emphasis on diversity and corporate citizenship. safety we promote safety throughout our operations. our automotive fleet safety program is built with the following components: selection. five out of every six drivers come from our part-time ranks. therefore, many of our new drivers are familiar with our philosophies, policies, practices and training programs. training. training is the cornerstone of our fleet safety program. our approach starts with training the trainer. all trainers are certified to ensure that they have the skills and motivation to effectively train novice drivers. a new driver employment includes extensive classroom and online training as well as on-road training, followed by three safety training rides integrated into his or her training cycle. responsibility. our operations managers are responsible for their drivers safety records. we investigate every accident. if we determine that an accident could have been prevented, we retrain the driver. preventive maintenance. an integral part of our fleet safety program is a comprehensive preventive maintenance program. our fleet is tracked electronically to ensure that each vehicle is serviced before a breakdown or accident is likely to occur. honor plan. a well-defined safe driver honor plan recognizes and rewards our drivers when they achieve success. we have over 4,000 drivers who have driven for 25 years or more without an avoidable accident. our workplace safety program is built upon a comprehensive health and safety process. the foundation of this process is our employee-management health and safety committees. the workplace safety process focuses on employee conditioning and safety-related habits. our employee co-chaired health and safety committees complete comprehensive facility audits and injury analyses, and recommend facility and work process changes. competition we are the largest package delivery company in the world, in terms of both revenue and volume. we offer a broad array of services in the package and freight delivery industry and, therefore, compete with many different local, regional, national and international companies. our competitors include worldwide postal services, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. through our supply chain service offerings, we compete with a number of participants in the supply chain, financial services and information technology industries. competitive strengths our competitive strengths include: integrated global network. we believe that our integrated global ground and air network is the most extensive in the industry. we handle all levels of service (air, ground, domestic, international, commercial, residential) through a single pickup and delivery service network. our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily basis. this unique, integrated global business model creates consistent and superior returns. 10 table of contents we believe we have the most comprehensive integrated delivery and information services portfolio of any carrier in europe. in other regions of the world, we rely on both our own and local service providers capabilities to meet our service commitments. global presence. ups serves more than 220 countries and territories around the world. we have a presence in all of the world major economies. leading-edge technology. we are a global leader in developing technology that helps our customers optimize their shipping and logistics business processes to lower costs, improve service and increase efficiency. technology powers virtually every service we offer and every operation we perform. our technology offerings are initiated by our customers needs. we offer a variety of on-line service options that enable our customers to integrate ups functionality into their own businesses not only to conveniently send, manage and track their shipments, but also to provide their customers with better information services. we provide the infrastructure for an internet presence that extends to tens of thousands of customers who have integrated ups tools directly into their own web sites. broad portfolio of services. our portfolio of services enables customers to choose the delivery option that is most appropriate for their requirements. increasingly, our customers benefit from business solutions that integrate many ups services in addition to package delivery. for example, our supply chain services such as freight forwarding, customs brokerage, order fulfillment, and returns management help improve the efficiency of the supply chain management process. customer relationships. we focus on building and maintaining long-term customer relationships. we serve 1.1 million pick-up customers and 7.7 million delivery customers daily. cross-selling small package, supply chain and freight services across our customer base is an important growth mechanism for ups. brand equity. we have built a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality service, reliability and product innovation. the distinctive appearance of our vehicles and the friendliness and helpfulness of our drivers are major contributors to our brand equity. distinctive culture. we believe that the dedication of our employees results in large part from our distinctive employee-owner concept. our employee stock ownership tradition dates from 1927, when our founders, who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital foundation for successful business, first offered stock to employees. to facilitate employee stock ownership, we maintain several stock-based compensation programs. our long-standing policy of promotion from within complements our tradition of employee ownership, and this policy reduces the need for us to hire managers and executive officers from outside ups. the majority of our management team began their careers as full-time or part-time hourly ups employees, and have spent their entire careers with us. many of our executive officers have more than 30 years of service with ups and have accumulated a meaningful ownership stake in our company. therefore, our executive officers have a strong incentive to effectively manage ups, which benefits all our shareowners. financial strength. our balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies can match. our financial strength gives us the resources to achieve global scale; to invest in employee development, technology, transportation equipment and buildings; to pursue strategic opportunities that facilitate our growth; to service our obligations; and to return value to our shareowners in the form of dividends and share repurchases. government regulation air operations the u.s. department of transportation ( dot ), the federal aviation administration ( faa ), and the u.s. department of homeland security, through the transportation security administration ( tsa ), have 11 table of contents regulatory authority over united parcel service co. ( ups airlines ) air transportation services. the federal aviation act of 1958, as amended, is the statutory basis for dot and faa authority and the aviation and transportation security act of 2001, as amended, is the basis for tsa aviation security authority. the dot authority primarily relates to economic aspects of air transportation, such as discriminatory pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and cooperative agreements. the dot also regulates, subject to the authority of the president of the united states, international routes, fares, rates and practices, and is authorized to investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of u.s. air carriers abroad. international operating rights for u.s. airlines are usually subject to bilateral agreement between the u.s. and foreign governments. ups airlines has international route operating rights granted by the dot and we may apply for additional authorities when those operating rights are available and are required for the efficient operation of our international network. the efficiency and flexibility of our international air transportation network is dependent on dot and foreign government regulations and operating restrictions. the faa authority primarily relates to safety aspects of air transportation, including aircraft operating procedures, transportation of hazardous materials, record keeping standards and maintenance activities, personnel and ground facilities. in 1988, the faa granted us an operating certificate, which remains in effect so long as we meet the safety and operational requirements of the applicable faa regulations. in addition, we are subject to non-u.s. government regulation of aviation rights involving non-u.s. jurisdictions, and non-u.s. customs regulation. faa regulations mandate an aircraft corrosion control program, along with aircraft inspection and repair at periodic intervals specified by approved programs and procedures, for all aircraft. our total expenditures under these programs for 2011 were not material. the future cost of repairs pursuant to these programs may fluctuate according to aircraft condition, age and the enactment of additional faa regulatory requirements. the tsa regulates various security aspects of air cargo transportation in a manner consistent with the tsa mission statement to protect the nation transportation systems to ensure freedom of movement for people and commerce. ups airlines, and specified airport and off airport locations, are regulated under tsa regulations applicable to the transportation of cargo in an air network. in addition, personnel, facilities and procedures involved in air cargo transportation must comply with tsa regulations. ups airlines, along with a number of other domestic airlines, participates in the civil reserve air fleet ( craf ) program. our participation in the craf program allows the u.s. department of defense ( dod ) to requisition specified ups airlines wide-body aircraft for military use during a national defense emergency. the dod compensates us for the use of aircraft under the craf program. in addition, participation in craf entitles ups airlines to bid for military cargo charter operations. ground operations our ground transportation of packages in the u.s. is subject to the dot jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of routes and to both the dot and the states jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of safety, insurance and hazardous materials. we are subject to similar regulation in many non-u.s. jurisdictions. the postal reorganization act of 1970 created the u.s. postal service as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the federal government, and created the postal rate commission, an independent agency, to recommend postal rates. the postal accountability and enhancement act of 2006 amended the 1970 act to give the re-named postal regulatory commission revised oversight authority over many aspects of the postal service, including postal rates, product offerings and service standards. we sometimes participate in the proceedings before the postal regulatory commission in an attempt to secure fair postal rates for competitive services. 12 table of contents customs we are subject to the customs laws in the countries in which we operate, regarding the import and export of shipments, including those related to the filing of documents on behalf of client importers and exporters. environmental we are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations across all of our business units. these laws and regulations cover a variety of processes, including, but not limited to: proper storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous and other waste; managing wastewater and stormwater; monitoring and maintaining the integrity of underground storage tanks; complying with laws regarding clean air, including those governing emissions; protecting against and appropriately responding to spills and releases; and communicating the presence of reportable quantities of hazardous materials to local responders. ups has established site- and activity-specific environmental compliance and pollution prevention programs to address our environmental responsibilities and remain compliant. in addition, ups has created numerous programs which seek to minimize waste and prevent pollution within our operations. other regulations we are subject to numerous other u.s. federal and state laws and regulations, in addition to applicable foreign laws, in connection with our package and non-package businesses in the countries in which we operate. these laws and regulations include those enforced by u.s. customs and border protection and other agencies of the u.s. department of homeland security, the u.s. department of treasury, the federal maritime commission, the u.s. drug enforcement administration, the u.s. food and drug administration and the u.s. department of agriculture. where you can find more information ups maintains a website at www.ups.com . our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available through our website www.investors.ups.com as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the sec. also available on the corporation website are the company corporate governance guidelines and committee charters. information on these websites, however, is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with or furnished to the sec. we have adopted a written code of business conduct that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers. it is available in the governance section of the investor relations website, located at www.investors.ups.com . in the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers from, the provisions of the code of business conduct that the sec requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events in the governance section of our investor relations website. our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee are also available in the governance section of the investor relations website. our sustainability report, which describes our activities that support our commitment to acting responsibly and contributing to society, is available at www.sustainability.ups.com . we provide the addresses to our internet sites solely for the information of investors. we do not intend any addresses to be active links or to otherwise incorporate the contents of any website into this report. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. you should read these risk factors in conjunction with management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in item 8. general economic conditions, both in the u.s. and internationally, may adversely affect our results of operations. we conduct operations in over 220 countries and territories. our u.s. and international operations are subject to normal cycles affecting the economy in general, as well as the local economic environments in which we operate. the factors that create cyclical changes to the economy and to our business are beyond our control, and it may be difficult for us to adjust our business model to mitigate the impact of these factors. in particular, our business is affected by levels of industrial production, consumer spending and retail activity, and our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected by adverse developments in these aspects of the economy. we face significant competition which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we face significant competition on a local, regional, national and international basis. our competitors include the postal services of the u.s. and other nations, various motor carriers, express companies, freight forwarders, air couriers and others. competition may also come from other sources in the future. some of our competitors have cost and organizational structures that differ from ours and may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. if we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to competitive pressures, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. the transportation industry continues to consolidate and competition remains strong. as a result of consolidation, our competitors may increase their market share and improve their financial capacity, and may strengthen their competitive positions. business combinations could also result in competitors providing a wider variety of services and products at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our financial performance. our business is subject to complex and stringent regulation in the u.s. and internationally. we are subject to complex and stringent aviation, transportation, environmental, security, labor, employment and other governmental laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate. in addition, our business is impacted by laws and regulations that affect global trade, including tariff and trade policies, export requirements, taxes and other restrictions and charges. changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. the impact of new laws and regulations cannot be predicted. compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations in the u.s. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. increased security requirements could impose substantial costs on us and we could be the target of an attack or have a security breach. as a result of concerns about global terrorism and homeland security, governments around the world have adopted or may adopt stricter security requirements that will result in increased operating costs for businesses in 14 table of contents the transportation industry. these requirements may change periodically as a result of regulatory and legislative requirements and in response to evolving threats. we cannot determine the effect that these new requirements will have on our cost structure or our operating results, and these rules or other future security requirements may increase our costs of operations and reduce operating efficiencies. regardless of our compliance with security requirements or the steps we take to secure our facilities or fleet, we could be the target of an attack or security breaches could occur, which could adversely affect our operations or our reputation. we may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such potential change. concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant federal, state and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions. for example, in the past several years, the u.s. congress has considered various bills that would regulate ghg emissions. while these bills have not yet received sufficient congressional support for enactment, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. even in the absence of such legislation, the environmental protection agency, spurred by judicial interpretation of the clean air act, may regulate ghg emissions, especially aircraft or diesel engine emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on us. these costs include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase and capital costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft or vehicles prematurely. until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. it is reasonably possible that such legislation or regulation could impose material costs on us. moreover, even without such legislation or regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the ghgs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air services. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. a significant number of our employees are employed under a national master agreement and various supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the teamsters and our airline pilots, airline mechanics, ground mechanics and certain other employees are employed under other collective bargaining agreements. strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers needs, and customers may do more business with competitors if they believe that such actions or threatened actions may adversely affect our ability to provide services. we may face permanent loss of customers if we are unable to provide uninterrupted service, and this could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. the terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position and results of operations. we are exposed to the effects of changing prices of energy, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and interruptions in supplies of these commodities. changing fuel and energy costs may have a significant impact on our operations. we require significant quantities of fuel for our aircraft and delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with variations in the market price for petroleum products, including gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. we mitigate our exposure to changing fuel prices through our indexed fuel surcharges and we may also enter into hedging transactions from time to time. if we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges, higher fuel costs could adversely impact our operating results. even if we are able to offset the cost of fuel with our surcharges, high fuel surcharges may result in a mix shift from our higher yielding air products to lower yielding ground products or an overall reduction in volume. if fuel prices rise sharply, even if we are successful in increasing our fuel surcharge, we could experience a lag time in implementing the surcharge, which could adversely affect our short-term operating results. there can be no assurance that our hedging transactions will be effective to protect us 15 table of contents from changes in fuel prices. moreover, we could experience a disruption in energy supplies, including our supply of gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as a result of war, actions by producers, or other factors which are beyond our control, which could have an adverse effect on our business. changes in exchange rates or interest rates may have an adverse effect on our results. we conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our revenue derived from operations outside the united states. our operations in international markets are affected by changes in the exchange rates for local currencies, and in particular the euro, british pound sterling and canadian dollar. we are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and that portion of our long-term debt that carries floating interest rates. the impact of a 100-basis-point change in interest rates affecting our debt is discussed in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk section of this report. we monitor and manage our exposures to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and make limited use of currency exchange contracts, over the counter option contracts, commodity forwards, swaps and futures contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency values, but changes in exchange rates and interest rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. if we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the ups brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, environmental concerns, security matters, political activities and the like, or attempts to connect our company to these sorts of issues, either in the united states or other countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our overall reputation and acceptance of our services by customers. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. a significant privacy breach or it system disruption could adversely affect our business and we may be required to increase our spending on data and system security. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. in addition, the provision of service to our customers and the operation of our network involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of customers, employees and others. our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. groups of hackers may also act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service attacks or other coordinated attacks that may cause service outages or other interruptions. in addition, breaches in security could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data. any of these occurrences could result in disruptions in our operations, the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our brand and reputation, and litigation and potential liability for the company. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data or system protection measures could be significant. severe weather or other natural or manmade disasters could adversely affect our business. severe weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters, including storms, floods, fires and earthquakes, may result in decreased revenues, as our customers reduce their shipments, or increased costs to 16 table of contents operate our business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for a quarter or year. any such event affecting one of our major facilities could result in a significant interruption in or disruption of our business. we make significant capital investments in our business of which a significant portion is tied to projected volume levels. we require significant capital investments in our business consisting of aircraft, vehicles, technology, facilities and sorting and other types of equipment to support both our existing business and anticipated growth. forecasting projected volume involves many factors which are subject to uncertainty, such as general economic trends, changes in governmental regulation and competition. if we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity, either of which would negatively affect our revenues and profitability. in addition to forecasting our capital investment requirements, we adjust other elements of our operations and cost structure in response to adverse economic conditions; however, these adjustments may not be sufficient to allow us to maintain our operating margins in an adverse economy. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in emerging markets. we have significant international operations and while the geographical diversity of our international operations helps ensure that we are not overly reliant on a single region or country, we are continually exposed to changing economic, political and social developments beyond our control. emerging markets are typically more volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based downturn in these markets could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to changes in markets and our business plans that have resulted, and may in the future result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying value of our assets, thereby reducing our net income. our regular review of the carrying value of our assets has resulted, from time to time, in significant impairments, and we may in the future be required to recognize additional impairment charges. changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairments of our intangible or other assets at any time in the future. in addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets are shorter than we originally estimated. such changes could reduce our net income. employee health and retiree health and pension benefit costs represent a significant expense to us. with approximately 398,000 employees, including approximately 323,000 in the u.s., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. continued increasing health care costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or require significant contributions to our pension plans. we participate in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans for employees covered under collective bargaining agreements. several factors could cause us to make significantly higher future contributions to these plans, including unfavorable investment performance, increases in health care costs, changes in demographics and increased benefits to participants. at this time, we are unable to determine the amount of additional future contributions, if any, or whether any material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could result from our participation in these plans. 17 table of contents we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire businesses and form joint ventures or strategic alliances. whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends, in part, upon the successful integration between the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying operation, capabilities or technologies and the management of the transacted operations. accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by our failure to effectively integrate the acquired operations, unanticipated performance issues, transaction-related charges or charges for impairment of long-term assets that we acquire. insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a combination of both self-insurance and high-deductible insurance programs for the risks arising out of the services we provide and the nature of our global operations, including claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, aircraft and related liabilities, business interruption and workers compensation. workers compensation, automobile and general liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. if the number or severity of claims for which we are retaining risk increases, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we lose our ability to self-insure these risks, our insurance costs could materially increase and we may find it difficult to obtain adequate levels of insurance coverage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices. all of these market risks arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in speculative trading activities. in order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of commodity, foreign exchange and interest rate forward contracts, options and swaps. a discussion of our accounting policies for derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. 56 table of contents commodity price risk we are exposed to changes in the prices of refined fuels, principally jet-a, diesel and unleaded gasoline. currently, the fuel surcharges that we apply to our domestic and international package and ltl services are the primary means of reducing the risk of adverse fuel price changes. additionally, we periodically use a combination of option contracts to provide partial protection from changing fuel and energy prices. as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, however, we had no commodity option contracts outstanding. foreign currency exchange risk we have foreign currency risks related to our revenue, operating expenses and financing transactions in currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate. we are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities and cash flows. our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the euro, the british pound sterling and the canadian dollar. we use a combination of purchased and written options and forward contracts to hedge forecasted cash flow currency exposures. these derivative instruments generally cover forecasted foreign currency exposures for periods of 12 to 24 months. additionally, we utilize cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge the currency risk inherent in the interest and principal payments associated with foreign currency denominated debt obligations. the terms of these swap agreements are commensurate with the underlying debt obligations. interest rate risk we have issued debt instruments, including debt associated with capital leases, that accrue expense at fixed and floating rates of interest. we use a combination of interest rate swaps as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. the notional amount, interest payment and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the associated debt. we also utilize forward starting swaps and similar instruments to lock in all or a portion of the borrowing cost of anticipated debt issuances. our floating rate debt and interest rate swaps subject us to risk resulting from changes in short-term (primarily libor) interest rates. we also are subject to interest rate risk with respect to our pension and postretirement benefit obligations, as changes in interest rates will effectively increase or decrease our liabilities associated with these benefit plans, which also results in changes to the amount of pension and postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods. we have investments in debt securities, as well as cash-equivalent instruments, some of which accrue income at variable rates of interest. additionally, we hold a portfolio of finance receivables that accrue income at fixed and floating rates of interest. equity price risk we hold investments in various common equity securities that are subject to price risk. these securities are primarily in the form of equity index funds. sensitivity analysis the following analysis provides quantitative information regarding our exposure to commodity price risk, foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and equity price risk embedded in our existing financial instruments. we utilize valuation models to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves and 57 table of contents commodity and equity prices. for options and instruments with non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are utilized to determine the impact of market shifts. there are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change instantaneously. in addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. while this is our best estimate of the impact of the specified interest rate scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. we adjust the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in response to changes in market conditions. additionally, changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and commodity derivatives are offset by changes in the cash flows of the underlying hedged foreign currency and commodity transactions. shock-test result as of december 31, (in millions) 2011 2010 change in fair value: currency derivatives(1) $ (64 ) $ (89 ) change in annual expense: variable rate debt(2) $ 7 $ 10 interest rate derivatives(2) $ 71 $ 58 (1) the potential change in fair value from a hypothetical 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against local currency exchange rates across all maturities. (2) the potential change in annual interest expense resulting from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates, applied to our variable rate debt and swap instruments (excluding hedges of anticipated debt issuances). the sensitivity of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations to changes in interest rates is quantified in critical accounting policies and estimates . the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our marketable securities due to changes in equity prices and interest rates, respectively, was not material as of december 31, 2011 or 2010. the sensitivity in the fair value and interest income of our finance receivables due to changes in interest rates was also not material as of december 31, 2011 or 2010. 58 table of contents