quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our interest expense is sensitive to changes in the general level of interest rates. to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in domestic interest rates, a portion of our debt is fixed rate accomplished by either borrowing on a long-term basis at fixed rates or by entering into interest rate swap transactions. our interest rate swap agreements are contracts that require us to pay fixed and receive floating interest rates or to pay floating and receive fixed interest rates over the life of the agreements. the floating-rates are based on libor and the fixed-rate is determined at the time the swap agreement is consummated. as of december 31, 2003, we had three u.s. dollar interest rate swaps. one fixed rate swap with a notional principal amount of $125 million expires in august 2005. we pay a fixed rate of 6.76% and receives a floating rate equal to three month libor. as of december 31, 2003, the effective floating rate of this interest rate swap was 1.18%. we are also a party to two floating rate swaps having a notional principal amount of $60 million in which we receive a fixed rate of 6.75% and pay a floating rate equal to 6 month libor plus a spread. the initial term of these swaps was ten years and they are both scheduled to expire on november 15, 2011. as of december 31, 2003, the average floating rate of the $60 million of interest rate swaps was 2.56%. as of december 31, 2003, a majority-owned subsidiary of ours had two interest rate swaps denominated in euros. the total notional amount of these two interest rate swaps is 35.1 million euros ($44.2 million based on the end of period currency exchange rate). the notional amount decreases to 27.5 million euros ($34.6 million) on december 30, 2004, and the swaps mature on june 30, 2005. our subsidiary pays an average fixed rate of 4.35% and receives six month euribor. the effective floating rate for these swaps as of december 31, 2003 was 2.17%. the interest rate swap agreements do not constitute positions independent of the underlying exposures. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage features. we are exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to its financial instruments. the counterparties are creditworthy financial institutions, rated aa or better by moody investor services and we anticipate that the counterparties will be able to fully satisfy their obligations under the contracts. for the years ended december 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, we received weighted average rates of 3.1%, 3.5% and 5.9%, respectively, and paid a weighted average rate on its domestic interest rate swap agreements of 5.5% in 2003, 5.7% in 2002 and 6.9% in 2001. the table below presents information about our derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including long-term debt and interest rate swaps as of december 31, 2003. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average 40 table of contents interest rates by contractual maturity dates. for interest rate swap agreements, the table presents notional amounts by maturity date and weighted average interest rates based on rates in effect at december 31, 2003. the fair values of long-term debt and interest rate swaps were determined based on market prices quoted at december 31, 2003, for the same or similar debt issues. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate fair value $ 5,684 $ 7,520 $ 3,007 $ 1,087 $ 34 $ 617,992 (a) $ 635,324 fixed rate carrying value $ 5,684 $ 7,520 $ 3,007 $ 1,087 $ 34 $ 495,199 $ 512,531 average interest rates 6.3 % 5.9 % 5.7 % 5.0 % 8.0 % 5.7 % 5.7 % variable rate long-term debt $ 5,187 $ 7,262 $ 316,242 $ 14,006 $ 14,006 $ 10,200 $ 366,903 interest rate swaps: pay fixed/receive variable notional amounts $ 125,000 $ 125,000 fair value $ 10,825 $ 10,825 average pay rate 6.76 % average receive rate 3 month libor pay variable/receive fixed notional amounts $ (60,000 ) $ (60,000 ) fair value $ (4,879 ) $ (4,879 ) average pay rate 6 month libor plus spread average receive rate 6.75 % euro denominated swaps: pay fixed/receive variable notional amount $ 9,599 $ 34,591 $ 44,190 fair value $ 1,157 $ 1,157 average pay rate 4.35 % 4.35 % average receive rate 6 month euribor 6 month euribor (a) the fair value of our 5% convertible debentures ( debentures ) at december 31, 2003 is $387 million, however, we have the right to redeem the debentures any time on or after june 23, 2006 at a price equal to the issue price of the debentures plus accrued original issue discount and accrued cash interest to the date of redemption. on june 23, 2006 the amount necessary to redeem all debentures would be $319 million. if the debentures could be redeemed at the same basis at december 31, 2003 the redemption amount would be $288 million. the holders of the debentures may convert the debentures to our class b stock at any time. if all debentures were converted, the result would be the issuance of 6.6 million shares of our class b common stock.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our interest expense is sensitive to changes in the general level of interest rates. to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in domestic interest rates, a portion of our debt is fixed rate accomplished by either borrowing on a long-term basis at fixed rates or by entering into interest rate swap transactions. our interest rate swap agreements are contracts that require us to pay fixed and receive floating interest rates or to pay floating and receive fixed interest rates over the life of the agreements. the floating-rates are based on libor and the fixed-rate is determined at the time the swap agreement is consummated. as of december 31, 2004 we had no u.s. dollar denominated interest rate swaps. during the fourth quarter of 2004, we terminated three interest rate swaps. we terminated one fixed rate swap with a notional principal amount of $125 million, which was scheduled to expire in august 2005. under the terms of the swap, we paid a fixed rate of 6.76% and received a floating rate equal to three month libor. we also terminated two floating rate interest rate swaps having a notional principal amount of $60 million in which we received a fixed rate of 6.75% and paid a floating rate equal to 6 month libor plus a spread. the initial term of these swaps was ten years and they were both scheduled to expire on november 15, 2011. for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, we received weighted average rates of 3.2%, 3.1% and 3.5%, respectively, and paid a weighted average rate on its domestic interest rate swap agreements of 5.5% in 2004, 5.5% in 2003 and 5.7% in 2002. as of december 31, 2004, a majority-owned subsidiary of ours had two interest rate swaps and two interest rate caps denominated in euros. the total notional amount of the two interest rate swaps is 27.5 million euros ($37.2 million based on the end of period currency exchange rate) and will mature on june 30, 2005. our subsidiary pays an average fixed rate of 4.35% and receives six month euribor. the effective floating rate for these swaps as of december 31, 2004 was 1.45%. the notional amount of the interest rate cap currently outstanding is 17.5 million euros ($23.7 million), the strike price is 3.5% and the cap matures on june 30, 2005. the other interest rate cap is a forward starting cap that takes effect on june 30, 2005 upon the expiration of the currently outstanding interest rate swaps and caps. the notional amount of the cap begins at 45.0 million euros ($60.9 million) and reduces to 38.0 million euros ($51.4 million) on december 30, 2005. the strike price is 3.3625% and the cap matures on december 29, 2006. 55 table of contents the interest rate swap and cap agreements do not constitute positions independent of the underlying exposures. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage features. in the event of nonperformance by the counter-parties to these financial instruments, we are exposed to credit losses. the counter-parties are creditworthy financial institutions, rated a or better by moody investor services and we anticipate that the counter-parties will be able to fully satisfy their obligations under the contracts. the table below presents information about our derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including long-term debt and interest rate swaps as of december 31, 2004. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. for interest rate swap agreements, the table presents notional amounts by maturity date and weighted average interest rates based on rates in effect at december 31, 2004. the fair values of long-term debt and interest rate swaps were determined based on market prices quoted at december 31, 2004, for the same or similar debt issues. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate fair value $ 16,718 $ 25,065 $ 21,887 $ 20,889 $ 6,501 $ 568,979 (a) $ 660,039 fixed rate carrying value $ 16,718 $ 25,065 $ 21,887 $ 20,889 $ 6,501 $ 506,600 $ 597,660 average interest rates 5.4 % 5.6 % 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.5 % 5.7 % 5.6 % variable rate long-term debt $ 250 $ 261,085 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 10,200 $ 271,535 interest rate swaps: euro denominated swaps and cap: pay fixed/receive variable notional amount $ 37,200 $ 37,200 fair value $ (397 ) average pay rate 4.35 % average receive rate 6 month euribor interest rate caps $ 23,700 $ 23,700 forward starting interest rate cap $ 51,437 $ 51,437 average strike price 3.5 % 3.36 % fair value $ 1 $ (524 ) (a) the fair value of our 5% convertible debentures ( debentures ) at december 31, 2004 is $ 343.5 million, however, we have the right to redeem the debentures any time on or after june 23, 2006 at a price equal to the issue price of the debentures plus accrued original issue discount and accrued cash interest to the date of redemption. on june 23, 2006 the amount necessary to redeem all debentures would be $319 million. if the debentures could be redeemed at the same basis at december 31, 2004 the redemption amount would be $300 million. the holders of the debentures may convert the debentures to our class b stock at any time. if all debentures were converted, the result would be the issuance of 6.6 million shares of our class b common stock. 56 table of contentsrisk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenues is produced by a small number of our facilities, which are concentrated in texas and nevada. we have a majority ownership interest in four acute care hospitals in the las vegas, nevada market. these four hospitals, valley hospital medical center, summerlin hospital medical center, desert springs hospital and spring valley medical center, on a combined basis, contributed 20% in 2005, 18% in 2004 and 18% in 2003 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 23% in 2005, 12% in 2004 and 13% in 2003 of our earnings before income taxes (excluding the pre-tax hurricane related expenses of $165 million and pre-tax hurricane insurance recoveries of $82 million recorded during 2005). in addition, two of our facilities, mcallen medical center, located in mcallen, texas, and edinburg regional medical center, located in edinburg, texas, operate within the same market. on a combined basis, these two facilities contributed 8% in 2005, 10% in 2004 and 12% in 2003, of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 4% in 2005, 13% in 2004 and 19% in 2003 of our earnings before income taxes (excluding the pre-tax hurricane related expenses of $165 million and pre-tax hurricane insurance recoveries of $82 million recorded during 2005). as discussed in management discussion and analysis of operations and financial condition acute care hospital services , our acute care facilities in the mcallen/edinburg, texas market have experienced significant declines in operating performance due to continued intense hospital and physician competition in the market. we cannot predict the future performance of our facilities in the mcallen/edinburg, texas or las vegas, nevada markets, however, declines in performance of these facilities could materially reduce our future revenues and net income. in addition, the significant portion of our revenues derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in texas and nevada. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. we are likely to incur additional expenses and losses related to hurricane katrina and the full impact of the hurricane on our results of operations is unknown. four of our hospital facilities located in louisiana, comprising approximately 6% of our net revenues for the six month period ended june 30, 2005, were severely damaged by hurricane katrina. these facilities have remained closed and non-operational as we continue to assess the damage and the likely recovery period for the facilities and surrounding communities. we are currently unable to determine when, or if, the facilities will be rebuilt or repaired and although we believe we maintained commercial insurance policies at the time of the hurricane with combined potential coverage of $279 million for property damage and business interruption insurance, we are unable to determine the timing and amount of total insurance proceeds collectible by us since they will be based on factors such as loss causation, ultimate replacement costs of damaged assets and ultimate economic value of business interruption claims. see management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition impact of hurricane katrina . our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on 24 table of contents reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for health care services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the ongoing military engagement in iraq, the war on terrorism, and hurricanes katrina, rita and wilma relief efforts, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by government payors are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations. we receive a large concentration of our medicaid revenues from texas and significant amounts from pennsylvania, washington, dc and illinois. we can provide no assurance that reductions to medicaid revenues, particularly in these states, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectibility of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables and historical collection experience. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectibility of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations could be harmed. we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. in addition, the degree to which we are, or in the future may become, leveraged could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing and could make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures. our ability to meet existing and future debt obligations, depends upon our future performance and our ability to secure additional financing on satisfactory terms, each of which is subject to financial, business and other factors that are beyond our control. any failure by us to meet our financial obligations would harm our business. 25 table of contents fluctuations in our operating results quarter to quarter earning and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when if becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care industry is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than us. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. in mcallen, texas, the location of one of our largest acute care facilities, mcallen medical center, intense competition from other healthcare providers, including physician owned facilities, has increased. a physician-owned hospital in the market added new in-patient capacity in late 2004 which has eroded a portion of the facility higher margin business, including cardiac procedures. as a result, the facility continues to experience significant declines in patient volume and profitability. inpatient admissions and patient days at this facility decreased 4% and 13%, respectively, during the twelve month periods ended december 31, 2005 as compared to the comparable prior year period. net revenues decreased $30 million and income before income taxes decreased $21 million during 2005 as compared to 2004. as competition in the market has increased, wage rates and physician recruiting costs have risen, increasing the continued pressure on the facility operating margins and profitability. a continuation of the increased provider competition in this market, as well as the additional capacity currently under construction, by us and others, could result in additional erosion of the net revenues and financial operating results of our facilities in this market. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those 26 table of contents physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other health care professionals. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other health care providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may by required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality health care services at our facilities, which could harm our business. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities and governmental investigations. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, governmental investigations and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs (see legal proceedings ). all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is sufficient to cover claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 27 table of contents our growth strategy depends on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorney generals in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations. some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility reputation could harm our business. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted con laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase in the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. 28 table of contents if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care; quality of medical equipment and services; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; licensure and accreditation of our facilities hospital rate or budget review; operating policies and procedures; and construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the false claims act, hipaa, the federal anti-kickback statute and the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. if we fail to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. because many of these laws and regulations are relatively new, in many cases, we don t have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. 29 table of contents we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. an increasing number of legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in recent years that would result in major changes in the health care delivery system on a national or a state level. among the proposals that have been introduced are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of government health insurance plans that would cover all citizens and increase payments by beneficiaries. we cannot predict whether any of the above proposals or other proposals will be adopted and, if adopted, no assurances can be given that their implementation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if the number of patients treated by our subsidiary hospitals in accordance with applicable law and each hospital indigent and charity care guidelines increase, our results of operations may be harmed. in accordance with our code of business conduct and ethics, as well as emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient medical condition, within the facility capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital written procedures. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, our results of operations may be harmed. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our interest expense is sensitive to changes in the general level of interest rates. to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in domestic interest rates, a portion of our debt is fixed rate accomplished by either borrowing on a long-term basis at fixed rates or by entering into interest rate swap transactions. our interest rate swap agreements have been contracts that require us to pay fixed and receive floating interest rates or to pay floating and receive fixed interest rates over the life of the agreements. as of december 31, 2005 we had no u.s. dollar denominated interest rate swaps. during the fourth quarter of 2004, we terminated three interest rate swaps. we terminated one fixed rate swap with a notional principal amount of $125 million, which was scheduled to expire in august 2005. under the terms of the swap, we paid a fixed rate of 6.76% and received a floating rate equal to three month libor. we also terminated two floating rate interest rate swaps having a notional principal amount of $60 million in which we received a fixed rate of 6.75% and paid a floating rate equal to 6 month libor plus a spread. the initial term of these swaps was ten years and they were both scheduled to expire on november 15, 2011. for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003, we received weighted average rates of 3.2%, and 3.1%, respectively, and paid a weighted average rate on its domestic interest rate swap agreements of 5.5% in 2004 and 5.5% in 2003. the interest rate swap agreements did not constitute positions independent of the underlying exposures. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage features. the table below presents information about our derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including long-term debt as of december 31, 2005. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. the fair value of long-term debt was determined based on market prices quoted at december 31, 2005, for the same or similar debt issues. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate fair value $ 4,267 $ 569 $ 895 $ 53 $ 40 $ 545,920 (a) $ 551,744 fixed rate carrying value $ 4,267 $ 569 $ 895 $ 53 $ 40 $ 518,596 $ 524,420 average interest rates variable rate long-term debt $ 925 $ $ $ $ 107,300 $ 10,200 $ 118,425 (a) the fair value of our 5% convertible debentures ( debentures ) at december 31, 2005 is $330 million. we have the right to redeem the debentures for cash at any time on or after june 23, 2006 at a price equal to the issue price of the debentures plus accrued original issue discount and accrued cash interest to the date of redemption. on june 23, 2006 the amount necessary to redeem all debentures would be $319 million. the holders of the debentures may require us to purchase their debentures on june 23, 2006, 2010 and 2015 at a price per debenture of $543.41, $643.48 and $799.84, respectively. we may choose to pay the purchase price in cash or shares of class b common stock or a combination of cash and shares of class b common stock. the holders of the debentures may convert the debentures to our class b stock at any time. if all debentures were converted, the result would be the issuance of 6.6 million shares of our class b common stock. 75 table of contentsrisk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenues is produced by a small number of our facilities, which are concentrated in texas and nevada. we have a majority ownership interest in four operating acute care hospitals in the las vegas, nevada market and one that is currently under construction scheduled to be completed and opened during the fourth quarter of 2007. the four hospitals that are in operation, valley hospital medical center, summerlin hospital medical center, desert springs hospital and spring valley medical center, on a combined basis, contributed 21% in 2006, 20% in 2005, and 18% in 2004 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 30% in 2006, 23% in 2005, and 12% in 2004 of our earnings before income taxes (excluding the pre-tax hurricane related expenses of $14 million and pre-tax hurricane insurance recoveries of $182 million recorded during 2006 and excluding the pre-tax hurricane related expenses of $165 million and pre-tax hurricane insurance recoveries of $82 million recorded during 2005). in addition, mcallen medical center, which includes mcallen heart hospital and south texas behavioral health center, located in mcallen, texas, and edinburg regional medical center, which includes edinburg children hospital, located in edinburg, texas, operate within the same market. on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 8% in 2006, 8% in 2005, and 10% in 2004, of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 1% in 2006, 4% in 2005, and 13% in 2004 of our earnings before income taxes (excluding the pre-tax hurricane related expenses of $14 million and pre-tax hurricane insurance recoveries of $182 million recorded during 2006 and excluding the pre-tax hurricane related expenses of $165 million and pre-tax hurricane insurance recoveries of $82 million recorded during 2005). as discussed in management discussion and analysis of operations and 25 table of contents financial condition acute care hospital services , our facilities in the mcallen/edinburg, texas market have experienced significant declines in operating performance due to continued intense hospital and physician competition in the market. we cannot predict the future performance of our facilities in the mcallen/edinburg, texas or las vegas, nevada markets, however, declines in performance of these facilities could materially reduce our future revenues and net income. in addition, the significant portion of our revenues derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in texas and nevada. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for health care services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the ongoing military engagement in iraq, the war on terrorism and the relief efforts related to hurricanes and other disasters, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by government payors are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations. we receive a large concentration of our medicaid revenues from texas and significant amounts from pennsylvania, washington, dc and illinois. we can provide no assurance that reductions to medicaid revenues, particularly in these states, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectibility of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables and historical collection experience. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectibility of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of 26 table of contents accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations could be harmed. we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. in addition, the degree to which we are, or in the future may become, leveraged, our ability to obtain financing could be adversely impacted and could make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures. our ability to meet existing and future debt obligations, depends upon our future performance and our ability to secure additional financing on satisfactory terms, each of which is subject to financial, business and other factors that are beyond our control. any failure by us to meet our financial obligations would harm our business. fluctuations in our operating results quarter to quarter earning and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when if becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care industry is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than us. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. during the past several years, the operating results of our facilities located in the mcallen/edinburg, texas market have been pressured by continued intense hospital and physician competition as a physician-owned 27 table of contents hospital in the market has eroded a portion of our higher margin business, including cardiac procedures. in response to these competitive pressures, we have undertaken significant capital investment in the market, including edinburg children hospital, a new dedicated 120-bed children facility, which was completed and opened in march, 2006, as well as south texas behavioral health center, a 134-bed replacement behavioral facility, which was completed and opened in late june, 2006. although we experienced significant declines in inpatient volumes in this market during 2005 and 2004, patient volumes at these facilities have stabilized during 2006 as we experienced a 1.1% increase in combined inpatient admissions and a 1.9% decrease in combined patient days during 2006 as compared to 2005. the increase in the combined inpatient admissions during 2006 resulted primarily from the opening of the children hospital and behavioral health center. combined income before income taxes at the facilities in this market decreased $4 million during 2006 as compared to 2005. excluding the effect of retroactive state medicaid disproportionate share hospital payments recorded during 2006, combined income before income taxes at these facilities decreased $9 million during 2006 as compared to 2005. during 2005, combined admissions and patient days at these facilities decreased 7.5% and 13.5%, respectively, as compared to 2004. combined income before income taxes at these facilities decreased $17 million during 2005, as compared to 2004. a continuation of increased provider competition in this market, as well as additional capacity under construction by us and others, could result in additional erosion of the net revenues and financial operating results of our acute care facilities in this market. we expect the competitive pressures in the market to continue and potentially intensify if additional capacity is added to the market in future periods by our competitors. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other health care professionals. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other health care providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse- 28 table of contents staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may by required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality health care services at our facilities, which could harm our business. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities and governmental investigations. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, governmental investigations and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs (see legal proceedings ). we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or investigations or the effect that findings in such lawsuits or investigations may have on us. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is sufficient to cover claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. our growth strategy depends on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorney generals in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. 29 table of contents further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. in addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility reputation could harm our business. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted con laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase in the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; 30 table of contents ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the false claims act, hipaa, the federal anti-kickback statute and the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. these laws and regulations are extremely complex and, in many cases, we don t have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws (see legal proceedings ), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation. if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. an increasing number of legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in recent years that would result in major changes in the health care delivery system on a national or a state level. among the proposals that have been introduced are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of government health insurance plans that would cover all citizens and increase payments by beneficiaries. we cannot predict whether any of the above proposals or other proposals will be adopted and, if adopted, no assurances can be given that their implementation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 31 table of contents if the number of patients treated by our subsidiary hospitals in accordance with applicable law and each hospital indigent and charity care guidelines increase, our results of operations may be harmed. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient medical condition, within the facility capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital written procedures. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, our results of operations may be harmed. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that in the future our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 32 table of contents we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse affect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. because of the recent global and regional events, the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. in addition, we have commitments with unrelated third-parties to build newly constructed facilities with a specified minimum number of beds and services. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our interest expense is sensitive to changes in the general level of interest rates. to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in domestic interest rates, a portion of our debt is fixed rate accomplished by either borrowing on a long-term basis at fixed rates or by, from time to time, entering into interest rate swap transactions. although we do not have any interest rate swap agreements outstanding as of december 31, 2006, our previously outstanding interest rate swaps have been contracts that require us to pay fixed and receive floating interest rates or to pay floating and receive fixed interest rates over the life of the agreements. we may also, from time to time, enter into treasury locks ( t-locks ) to protect from a rise in the yield of the underlying treasury security for a forecasted bond issuance. as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, we had no u.s. dollar denominated interest rate swaps. during the second quarter of 2006, in connection with the issuance of the $250 million of senior notes ( notes ) which have a 7.125% coupon rate and mature on june 30, 2016, we entered into t-locks, with an aggregate notional amount of $250 million, to lock in the 10-year treasury rate underlying the bond issuance. these t-locks, which were designated as cash flow hedges, were unwound during the second quarter of 2006 resulting in a $3 million cash payment to us which has been recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income taxes ($2.1 million after-tax), and will be amortized over the life of the 10-year notes. during the fourth quarter of 2004, we terminated three interest rate swaps. we terminated one fixed rate swap with a notional principal amount of $125 million, which was scheduled to expire in august 2005. under the terms of the swap, we paid a fixed rate of 6.76% and received a floating rate equal to three month libor. we also terminated two floating rate interest rate swaps having a notional principal amount of $60 million in which we received a fixed rate of 6.75% and paid a floating rate equal to 6 month libor plus a spread. the initial term of these swaps was ten years and they were both scheduled to expire on november 15, 2011. for the year ended december 31, 2004, we received weighted average rates of 3.2% and paid weighted average rates of 5.5%. the interest rate swap agreements did not constitute positions independent of the underlying exposures. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any instruments with leverage features. the table below presents information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, solely long-term debt as of december 31, 2006. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. the fair value of long-term debt was determined based on market prices quoted at december 31, 2006, for the same or similar debt issues. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate fair value $ 1,669 $ 1,155 $ 287 $ 288 $ 209,602 $ 264,613 $ 477,614 fixed rate carrying value $ 1,669 $ 1,155 $ 287 $ 288 $ 203,232 $ 253,301 $ 459,932 average interest rates variable rate long-term debt $ 269 $ $ $ $ 352,900 $ 10,200 $ 363,369 82 table of contentsrisk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenues is produced by a small number of our facilities, which are concentrated in texas and nevada. we have a majority ownership interest in four operating acute care hospitals in the las vegas, nevada market and one newly constructed facility that has been completed and opened in january, 2008. the four 17 table of contents hospitals that were in operation as of december 31, 2007, valley hospital medical center, summerlin hospital medical center, desert springs hospital and spring valley medical center, on a combined basis, contributed 21% in 2007, 21% in 2006 and 20% in 2005, of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 32% in 2007, 30% in 2006 and 23% in 2005, of our earnings before income taxes (excluding the pre-tax hurricane related expenses of $14 million and pre-tax hurricane insurance recoveries of $182 million recorded during 2006 and excluding the pre-tax hurricane related expenses of $165 million and pre-tax hurricane insurance recoveries of $82 million recorded during 2005). in addition, south texas health system, which includes mcallen medical center, mcallen heart hospital and south texas behavioral health center, located in mcallen, texas, and edinburg regional medical center and edinburg children hospital, located in edinburg, texas, operate within the same market. on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 7% in 2007, 8% in 2006 and 8% in 2005, of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities had a pre-tax loss amounting to 3% of our earnings before income taxes in 2007 and generated 1% in 2006 and 4% in 2005, of our earnings before income taxes (excluding the pre-tax hurricane related expenses of $14 million and pre-tax hurricane insurance recoveries of $182 million recorded during 2006 and excluding the pre-tax hurricane related expenses of $165 million and pre-tax hurricane insurance recoveries of $82 million recorded during 2005). as discussed in item 7 management discussion and analysis of operations and financial condition acute care hospital services , our facilities in the mcallen/edinburg, texas market have experienced significant declines in operating performance due to continued intense hospital and physician competition in the market. we expect that our future patient volumes, net revenues and profitability in this market will continue to be unfavorably impacted as a result of recently completed increased competitor capacity and expansion of services. a continuation of increased provider competition in this market, as well as potential future capacity added by us and others, could result in additional erosion of the patient volumes, net revenues and financial operating results of our facilities in this market. the significant portion of our revenues derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in texas and nevada. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for health care services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the ongoing military engagement in iraq, the war on terrorism and the relief efforts related to hurricanes and other disasters, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by government payors are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations. we receive a large concentration of our medicaid revenues from texas and significant amounts from pennsylvania, washington, dc and illinois. we can provide no assurance that reductions to medicaid revenues, particularly in these states, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 table of contents in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectibility of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables and historical collection experience. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectibility of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations could be harmed. we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. in addition, the degree to which we are, or in the future may become, leveraged, our ability to obtain financing could be adversely impacted and could make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures. our ability to meet existing and future debt obligations, depends upon our future performance and our ability to secure additional financing on satisfactory terms, each of which is subject to financial, business and other factors that are beyond our control. any failure by us to meet our financial obligations would harm our business. fluctuations in our operating results quarter to quarter earning and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when if becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press 19 table of contents or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care industry is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. during the past several years, the operating results of our acute care facilities located in the mcallen/edinburg, texas market have been pressured by continued intense hospital and physician competition as a physician-owned hospital in the market has eroded a portion of our higher margin business, including cardiac procedures. in response to these competitive pressures, we have undertaken significant capital investment in the market, including edinburg children hospital, a new dedicated 120-bed children facility, which was completed and opened in march, 2006, as well as south texas behavioral health center, a 134-bed replacement behavioral facility, which was completed and opened in june, 2006. although we experienced significant declines in inpatient volumes in this market during 2004 and 2005, patient volumes at these facilities stabilized during 2006 and 2007. however, during the fourth quarter of 2007, newly constructed capacity at the physician owned hospital was completed and opened which unfavorably impacted the patient volumes, net revenues and profitability at our facilities in the mcallen/edinburg market during the quarter. we expect that our future patient volumes, net revenues and profitability will continue to be unfavorably impacted as a result of this increased competitor capacity and expansion of services. a continuation of increased provider competition in this market, as well as potential future capacity added by us and others, could result in additional erosion of the patient volumes, net revenues and financial operating results of our facilities in this market. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of operations and financial condition-acute care hospital services for additional disclosure. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. 20 table of contents it may become difficult for us to attract an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other health care professionals. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other health care providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse- staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may by required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality health care services at our facilities, which could harm our business. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities and governmental investigations. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, governmental investigations and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs (see item 3-legal proceedings for disclosure regarding an ongoing governmental investigation in connection with our south texas health system affiliates). we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or investigations or the effect that findings in such lawsuits or investigations may have on us. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. our growth strategy depends on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from not-for-profit 21 table of contents entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorney generals in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. in addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility reputation could harm our business. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted con laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we 22 table of contents have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the false claims act, hipaa, the federal anti-kickback statute and the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. these laws and regulations are extremely complex and, in many cases, we don t have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws (see item 3-legal proceedings ), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation. if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from 23 table of contents participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. an increasing number of legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in recent years that would result in major changes in the health care delivery system on a national or a state level. among the proposals that have been introduced are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of government health insurance plans that would cover all citizens and increase payments by beneficiaries. we cannot predict whether any of the above proposals or other proposals will be adopted and, if adopted, no assurances can be given that their implementation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if the number of uninsured patients treated by our subsidiary hospitals increase, our results of operations may be harmed. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient medical condition, within the facility capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital written procedures. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, our results of operations may be harmed. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report 24 table of contents on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. because of the recent global and regional events, the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. in addition, we have commitments with unrelated third-parties to build newly constructed facilities with a specified minimum number of beds and services. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our interest expense is sensitive to changes in the general level of interest rates. to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in domestic interest rates, a portion of our debt is fixed rate accomplished by either borrowing on a long-term basis at fixed rates or by, from time to time, entering into interest rate swap transactions. from time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap agreements that require us to pay fixed and receive floating interest rates or to pay floating and receive fixed interest rates over the life of the agreements. we may also, from time to time, enter into treasury locks ( t-locks ) to protect from a rise in the yield of the underlying treasury security for a forecasted bond issuance. during the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into two interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional principal amount of $150 million and receive 3-month libor. each of the two interest rate swaps has a notional principal amount of $75 million. the fixed rate payable on the first interest rate swap is 4.7625% and matures on october 5, 2012. the fixed rate payable on the second interest rate swap is 4.865% and the maturity date is october, 17, 2011. the notional amount of the second interest rate swap reduces to $50 million on october 18, 2010. as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, we had no u.s. dollar denominated interest rate swaps. during the second quarter of 2006, in connection with the issuance of the $250 million of senior notes ( notes ) which have a 7.125% coupon rate and mature on june 30, 2016, we entered into t-locks, with an aggregate notional amount of $250 million, to lock in the 10-year treasury rate underlying the bond issuance. these t-locks, which were 75 table of contents designated as cash flow hedges, were unwound during the second quarter of 2006 resulting in a $3 million cash payment to us which has been recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (net of income taxes) and is being amortized over the life of the 10-year notes. the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2007. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. the fair value of long-term debt was determined based on market prices quoted at december 31, 2007, for the same or similar debt issues. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 2,616 $ 1,521 $ 1,440 $ 200,347 $ 301 $ 255,525 $ 461,750 average interest rates 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.2 % 7.2 % 7.0 % variable rate: debt $ 500 $ 7,270 $ 756 $ 531,426 $ $ 10,200 $ 550,152 average interest rates 6.1 % 7.1 % 5.8 % 5.7 % 3.6 % 5.7 % interest rate swaps: notional amount $ 25,000 $ 50,000 $ 75,000 $ 150,000 average interest rates 4.9 % 4.9 % 4.8 % 4.8 % as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2007 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $4 million.risk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenues is produced by a small number of our facilities, which are concentrated in texas and nevada. we have a majority ownership interest in five acute care hospitals in the las vegas, nevada market. the five hospitals, valley hospital medical center, summerlin hospital medical center, desert springs hospital, spring valley medical center and centennial hills hospital medical center (opened in january 2008), on a combined basis, contributed 22% in 2008, 21% in 2007, and 21% in 2006 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 20% in 2008, 27% in 2007, and 25% in 2006 of our earnings before income taxes and interest expense. in addition, south texas health system, which includes mcallen medical center, mcallen heart hospital, south texas behavioral health center, located in mcallen, texas, and edinburg regional medical center and edinburg children hospital, located in edinburg, texas, operate within the same market. on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 7% in 2008, 7% in 2007, and 8% in 2006 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 3% in 2008, had a pre-tax loss of 3% in 2007, and generated 1% in 2006 of our earnings before income taxes and interest expense. the significant portion of our revenues derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in texas and nevada. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for health care services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the substantial deterioration in general economic conditions, the funding requirements from the federal government stimulus package, the ongoing military engagements in iraq and afghanistan, the war on terrorism and the relief efforts related to hurricanes and other disasters, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by government payors are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations. we receive a large concentration of our medicaid revenues from texas and significant amounts from nevada, florida, california, washington, dc and illinois. these states, as well as most other states in which we operate, have reported significant budget deficits that, for all except texas at this time, have resulted in a reduction of medicaid funding for 2009. we can provide no assurance that reductions to medicaid revenues, particularly in these states, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectibility of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables and historical collection experience. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectibility of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations could be harmed. fluctuations in our operating results quarter to quarter earning and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when if becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care industry is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and 18 table of contents diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. during the past several years, the operating results of our acute care facilities located in the mcallen/edinburg, texas market have been pressured by continued intense hospital and physician competition as a physician-owned hospital in the market has eroded a portion of our higher margin business, including cardiac procedures. additional newly constructed inpatient capacity and expansion of certain services at the physician owned hospital is expected to be completed and opened during the first quarter of 2009 which may further erode our future patient volumes and results of operations. in response to these competitive pressures, we have undertaken significant capital investment in the market, including two newly constructed facilities that were completed and opened during 2006 as follows: (i) edinburg children hospital, a 120-bed children facility, and; (ii) south texas behavioral health center, a 134-bed replacement behavioral health facility. however, we expect that our future patient volumes, net revenues and profitability will continue to be unfavorably impacted as a result of this increased competitor capacity and expansion of services. a continuation of increased provider competition in this market and other markets in which we operate, as well as potential future capacity added by us and others, could result in additional erosion of the patient volumes, net revenues and financial operating results of our facilities. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other health care professionals. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other health care providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may by required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. 19 table of contents we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality health care services at our facilities, which could harm our business. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities and governmental investigations. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, governmental investigations and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs (see item 3-legal proceedings for disclosure regarding ongoing governmental investigations). we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or investigations or the effect that findings in such lawsuits or investigations may have on us. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. our growth strategy depends on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorney generals in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. 20 table of contents we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. in addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility reputation could harm our business. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted con laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; 21 table of contents the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the false claims act, hipaa, the federal anti-kickback statute and the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. these laws and regulations are extremely complex and, in many cases, we don t have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws (see item 3-legal proceedings ), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation. if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. an increasing number of legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in recent years that would result in major changes in the health care delivery system on a national or a state level. among the proposals that have been introduced are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of government health insurance plans that would cover all citizens and increase payments by beneficiaries. we cannot predict whether any of the above proposals or other proposals will be adopted and, if adopted, no assurances can be given that their implementation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if the number of uninsured patients treated by our subsidiary hospitals increase, our results of operations may be harmed. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to 22 table of contents pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient medical condition, within the facility capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital written procedures. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, our results of operations may be harmed. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. in addition, we have commitments with unrelated third-parties 23 table of contents to build newly constructed facilities with a specified minimum number of beds and services. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states could materially affect our business and future results of operations. our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. a continuation or worsening of economic conditions may result in a continued increase in the unemployment rate which will likely increase the number of individuals without health insurance. as a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or a significant increase in services provided to uninsured patients. these factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. to fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. if any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the degree to which we are, or in the future may become, leveraged, our ability to obtain financing could be adversely impacted and could make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures. our ability to meet existing and future debt obligations, depends upon our future performance and our ability to secure additional financing on satisfactory terms, each of which is subject to financial, business and other factors that are beyond our control. any failure by us to meet our financial obligations would harm our business. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our interest expense is sensitive to changes in the general level of interest rates. to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in domestic interest rates, a portion of our debt is fixed rate accomplished by either borrowing on a long-term basis at fixed rates or by, from time to time, entering into interest rate swap transactions. from time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap agreements that require us to pay fixed and receive floating interest rates or to pay floating and receive fixed interest rates over the life of the agreements. we may also, from time to time, enter into treasury locks ( t-locks ) to protect from a rise in the yield of the underlying treasury security for a forecasted bond issuance. during the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into two interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional principal amount of $150 million and receive 3-month libor. each of the two interest rate swaps has a notional principal amount of $75 million. the fixed rate payable on the first interest rate swap is 4.7625% and matures on october 5, 2012. the fixed rate payable on the second interest rate swap is 4.865% and the maturity date is october, 17, 2011. the notional amount of the second interest rate swap reduces to $50 million on october 18, 2010. as of december 31, 2006, we had no u.s. dollar denominated interest rate swaps. during the second quarter of 2006, in connection with the issuance of the $250 million of senior notes ( notes ) which have a 7.125% coupon rate and mature on june 30, 2016, we entered into t-locks, with an aggregate notional amount of $250 million, to lock in the 10-year treasury rate underlying the bond issuance. these t-locks, which were designated as cash flow hedges, were unwound during the second quarter of 2006 resulting in a $3 million cash payment to us which has been recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (net of income taxes) and is being amortized over the life of the 10-year notes. the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2008. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. the fair value of long-term debt was determined based on market prices quoted at december 31, 2008, for the same or similar debt issues. 72 table of contents maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 2,295 $ 2,080 $ 202,814 $ 985 $ 1,043 $ 403,995 $ 613,212 average interest rates 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.1 % 7.1 % 7.1 % 7.1 % variable rate: debt $ 6,413 $ 994 $ 373,450 $ $ $ 5,300 $ 386,157 average interest rates 3.6 % 5.8 % 2.8 % 2.1 % 2.8 % interest rate swaps: notional amount $ 25,000 $ 50,000 $ 75,000 $ 150,000 average interest rates 4.9 % 4.9 % 4.8 % 4.8 % as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2008 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $2 million.risk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in nevada, texas and california. nevada: we own six acute care hospitals and two behavioral health care facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis these facilities contributed 24% in 2009, 24% in 2008, and 23% in 2007 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 14% in 2009, 18% in 2008, and 25% in 2007 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. texas: we own eight acute care hospitals and eight behavioral health care facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis these facilities contributed 20% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2009, 2008 and 2007. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 16% in 2009, 8% in 2008, and 2% in 2007 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. california: we own four acute care hospitals (excluding one replacement facility currently being constructed) and nine behavioral health care facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis these facilities contributed 10% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2009, 2008 and 2007. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 5% in 2009, 7% in 2008, and 3% in 2007 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. the significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in nevada, texas and california. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for health care services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the substantial deterioration in general economic conditions, the funding requirements from the federal government stimulus package, the war on terrorism and the relief 16 table of contents efforts related to hurricanes and other disasters, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by government payors are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations. we receive a large concentration of our medicaid revenues from texas and significant amounts from nevada, florida, california, washington, d.c. and illinois. these states, as well as most other states in which we operate, have reported significant budget deficits that have resulted in a reduction of medicaid funding for 2009. we can provide no assurance that reductions to medicaid revenues, particularly in these states, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. we are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient medical condition, within the facility capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital written procedures. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, our results of operations will be harmed. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables and historical collection experience. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed. a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states could materially affect our business and future results of operations. our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. a continuation or worsening of economic conditions may result in a continued increase in the unemployment rate 17 table of contents which will likely increase the number of individuals without health insurance. as a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or a significant increase in services provided to uninsured patients. these factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. an increasing number of legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in recent years that would result in major changes in the health care delivery system on a national or a state level. among the proposals that have been introduced are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of government health insurance plans that would cover all citizens and increase payments by beneficiaries. we cannot predict whether any of the above proposals or other proposals will be adopted and, if adopted, no assurances can be given that their implementation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the health care industry is highly competitive and competition among hospitals and other health care providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 table of contents our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other health care professionals. we compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other health care providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may by required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the health care industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the false claims act, hipaa, the federal anti-kickback statute and the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the oig has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. 19 table of contents these laws and regulations are extremely complex and, in many cases, we don t have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws (see item 3-legal proceedings ), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation. if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we may be subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits the federal false claims act permits private parties to bring qui tam , or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. in 2009, we agreed to settle a qui tam lawsuit relating to our south texas health system after many years of governmental investigations. some of our subsidiaries operating small behavioral health care facilities in virginia are currently the subject of governmental investigations, and, in one case, a qui tam action in which the government intervened and is charging violations of the false claims act. we cannot predict whether we will be the subject of additional investigations or whistleblower lawsuits. any determination that we have violated applicable laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on us. if any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under medicare or medicaid. the construction and operation of health care facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. all of our hospitals are accredited, meaning that they are properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the medicare program. the effect of maintaining accredited facilities is to allow 20 table of contents such facilities to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. we believe that all of our health care facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. however, should any of our health care facilities lose their accredited status and thereby lose certification under the medicare or medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected. two rivers psychiatric hospital ( two rivers ), a behavioral health facility operated by one of our subsidiaries, received a notice of termination of its medicare/medicaid certification as a result of two rivers alleged failure to correct certain deficiencies which make it ineligible for medicare program participation. we are attempting to resolve these issues amicably with the centers for medicare and medicaid services ( cms ) in an effort to prevent the termination from going into effect. in the interim, two rivers has filed an administrative appeal with the u.s. department of health and human services, departmental appeals board, civil remedies division, seeking review of that decision. in order to prevent cms from terminating the facility from the program prior to a hearing in the administrative appeal, two rivers has filed a complaint in the u.s. district court for the western district of missouri seeking a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction against cms proceeding with the termination. by agreement, the court has issued a temporary restraining order preventing cms from terminating two rivers from the medicare/medicaid program until such time that a settlement has been reached with cms or a preliminary injunction has been ruled upon by the court. in the event that a settlement is not reached or a preliminary injunction is not issued, the termination could go into effect, pending resolution of the administrative appeal. we can provide no assurance that two rivers will not ultimately lose its medicare certification and any such termination would have a material adverse effect on the facility future results of operations and financial condition. the operating results of two rivers did not have a material impact on our 2009 consolidated results of operations. during the third quarter of 2009, southwest healthcare system ( swhcs ), which operates rancho springs medical center and inland valley regional medical center in riverside county, california, entered into an agreement with the center for medicare and medicaid services ( cms ). the agreement required swhcs to engage an independent quality monitor to assist swhcs in meeting all cms conditions of participation. further, the agreement provided that, during the last 60 days of the agreement, cms would conduct a full medicare certification survey. that survey took place the week of january 11, 2010. at present, we have not been advised of the results from cms. while we believe that swhcs has complied with all obligations under the agreement, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of the survey or that the outcome would not have a material adverse effect on us. the operating results of swhcs did have a material impact on our 2009 consolidated results of operations. our growth strategy depends on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. 21 table of contents further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. in addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility reputation could harm our business. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted con laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 22 table of contents fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when if becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. in addition, we have a commitment with an unrelated third party to build a newly constructed facility with a specified minimum number of beds and services. although we 23 table of contents evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. to fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. if any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the degree to which we are, or in the future may become, leveraged, our ability to obtain financing could be adversely impacted and could make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures. our ability to meet existing and future debt obligations, depends upon our future performance and our ability to secure additional financing on satisfactory terms, each of which is subject to financial, business and other factors that are beyond our control. any failure by us to meet our financial obligations would harm our business. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality health care services at our facilities, which could harm our business. the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock is subject to potential increases or decreases. at december 31, 2009, 23,512,052 shares of class b common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of class a, c and d common stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase class b common stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. class a, c and d common stock are convertible on a share-for-share basis into class b common stock. to the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of class b common stock, the number of shares of class b common stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the holders of class b common stock would own a smaller percentage of that class. in addition, from time-to-time our board of directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our class b common stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding 24 table of contents shares of our class b common stock. based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings per share. the right to elect the majority of our board of directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of class a and c common stock, the majority of which is owned by alan b. miller, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of class a common stock vote as a class with the holders of class c common stock, and holders of class b common stock vote as a class with holders of class d common stock, with holders of all classes of our common stock entitled to one vote per share. as of march 31, 2009, the shares of class a and class c common stock constituted 7.5% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock and had the right to elect six members of the board of directors. as of march 31, 2009, the shares of class b and class d common stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 92.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and had the right to elect one member of the board of directors. as to matters other than the election of directors, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of class a, class b, class c and class d common stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law. each share of class a common stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of class b common stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of class c common stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of class c common stock holds a number of shares of class a common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class c common stock that holder holds); and each share of class d common stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of class d common stock holds a number of shares of class b common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class d common stock that holder holds). in the event a holder of class c or class d common stock holds a number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, less than ten times the number of shares of class c or class d common stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of class c common stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of class d common stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, held by that holder. the board of directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of class a or class b common stock as class c or class d common stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records. as of march 31, 2009, the shares of class a and class c common stock constituted 7.5% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock and constituted 87.1% of our general voting power. as of march 31, 2009, the shares of class b and class d common stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 92.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and constituted 12.9% of our general voting power. since a substantial majority of the class a shares and class c shares are controlled by mr. alan b. miller and members of his family who are also directors and officers of the company, and they can elect a majority of the company directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of the company. in addition because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, the market price of our class b common stock could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our interest expense is sensitive to changes in the general level of interest rates. to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in domestic interest rates, a portion of our debt is fixed rate accomplished by either borrowing on a long-term basis at fixed rates or by, from time to time, entering into interest rate swap transactions. from time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap agreements that require us to pay fixed and receive floating interest rates or to pay floating and receive fixed interest rates over the life of the agreements. we may also, from time to time, enter into treasury locks ( t-locks ) to protect from a rise in the yield of the underlying treasury security for a forecasted bond issuance. during the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into two interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional principal amount of $150 million and receive 3-month libor. each of the two interest rate swaps has a notional principal amount of $75 million. the interest rate swaps mature on october 17, 2011 and october 5, 2012 and have fixed rates payable of 4.865% and 4.7625%, respectively. the notional amount of the interest rate swap maturing on october 17, 2011 reduces to $50 million on october 18, 2010. during the second quarter of 2006, in connection with the issuance of the $250 million of senior notes ( notes ) which have a 7.125% coupon rate and mature on june 30, 2016, we entered into t-locks, with an aggregate notional amount of $250 million, to lock in the 10-year treasury rate underlying the bond issuance. these t-locks, which were designated as cash flow hedges, were unwound during the second quarter of 2006 resulting in a $3 million cash payment to us which has been recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (net of income taxes) and is being amortized over the life of the 10-year notes. the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2009. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 1,981 $ 202,075 $ 833 $ 813 $ 107 $ 402,327 $ 608,136 average interest rates 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.1 % 7.1 % 7.1 % 7.1 % 7.1 % variable rate: debt $ 592 $ 340,521 $ 431 $ 454 $ 3,568 $ 5,300 $ 350,866 average interest rates 0.8 % 0.8 % 2.5 % 2.3 % 2.6 % .4 % 1.6 % interest rate swaps: notional amount $ 25,000 $ 50,000 $ 75,000 $ 150,000 average interest rates 4.9 % 4.9 % 4.8 % 4.8 % 71 table of contents as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2009 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $2 million.risk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in nevada, texas and california. nevada: we own 6 acute care hospitals and 6 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 23% in 2010, 24% in 2009 and 24% in 2008 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 15% in 2010, 14% in 2009 and 18% in 2008 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. on a pro forma basis, assuming we had completed the acquisition of psi on january 1, 2010, these facilities contributed 18% in 2010 of our consolidated net revenues and 10% of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. texas: we own 8 acute care hospitals and 14 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 19% during 2010 and 20% during each of 2009 and 2008, of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 15% in 2010, 16% in 2009 and 8% in 2008 of our income from operations after net 16 table of contents income attributable to noncontrolling interest. on a pro forma basis, assuming we had completed the acquisition of psi on january 1, 2010, these facilities contributed 17% in 2010 of our consolidated net revenues. and 13% of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. california: we own 4 acute care hospitals and 15 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 10% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2010, 2009 and 2008. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 4% in 2010, 5% in 2009 and 7% in 2008 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. on a pro forma basis, assuming we had completed the acquisition of psi on january 1, 2010, these facilities contributed 9% in 2010 of our consolidated net revenues and 6% of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. the significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in nevada, texas and california. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the substantial deterioration in general economic conditions, the funding requirements from the federal government stimulus package, the war on terrorism and the relief efforts related to hurricanes and other disasters, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by government payors are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. on a prospective basis (including the projected revenues generated at the facilities acquired from psi), we expect to receive a large concentration of our medicaid revenues from texas and significant amounts from pennsylvania, illinois, washington, d.c., nevada and virginia. these states, as well as most other states in which we operate, have reported significant budget deficits that have resulted in proposed reductions to medicaid funding for 2011. we can provide no assurance that reductions to medicaid revenues, particularly in these states, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. 17 table of contents a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states could materially affect our business and future results of operations. our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. a continuation or worsening of economic conditions may result in a continued increase in the unemployment rate which will likely increase the number of individuals without health insurance. as a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or a significant increase in services provided to uninsured patients. these factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results. our patient revenues and payor mix during the last few years were adversely affected by economic conditions, particularly in certain markets, such as nevada, texas and california, where a significant portion of our revenues are concentrated and unemployment rates remain high. in our acute care business, we experienced net revenue pressures caused primarily by declining commercial payor utilization and an increase in the number of uninsured and underinsured patients treated at our facilities. we can provide no assurance that these trends will not continue. during 2010, our revenues and payor mix within our acute care operations have been volatile and are unfavorable compared to the comparable prior year period, making it difficult to predict the results for 2011 or thereafter. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act (the ppaca ). the healthcare and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the reconciliation act ), which contains a number of amendments to the ppaca, was signed into law on march 30, 2010. two primary goals of the ppaca, combined with the reconciliation act (collectively referred to as the legislation ), are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses. although it is expected that as a result of the legislation there may be a reduction in uninsured patients, which should reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the legislation makes a number of other changes to medicare and medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. the legislation revises reimbursement under the medicare and medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. the legislation provides for decreases in the annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning october 1, 2011 for medicare part b reimbursable items and services and beginning october 1, 2012 for medicare inpatient hospital services. the legislation will reduce medicare and medicaid disproportionate share payments beginning in 2014, which would adversely impact the reimbursement we receive under these programs. the legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals may include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates. the various provisions in the legislation that directly or indirectly affect reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. legislation provisions are likely to be affected by the incomplete nature of implementing regulations or expected forthcoming interpretive guidance, gradual implementation, future legislation, and possible judicial nullification of all or certain provisions of the legislation. further legislation provisions, such as those creating the medicare shared savings program and the independent payment advisory board, create certain flexibilities in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. thus, we cannot predict the impact of the legislation on our future reimbursement at this time. the legislation also contains provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. the legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and the false claims act, making it 18 table of contents easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. congress revised the intent requirement of the anti-kickback statute to provide that a person is not required to have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the anti-kickback statute in order to be found guilty of violating such law. the legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the anti-kickback statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil false claims act. the legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil false claims act. the legislation also expands the recovery audit contractor program to medicaid. these amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. these investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. the legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a grandfather clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited, effective immediately, from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. the legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. the impact of the legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. because legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the legislation may be subject to further revision or judicial nullification. we cannot predict the impact the legislation may have on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity, or whether we will be able to successfully adapt to the changes required by the legislation. we are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the emergency medical treatment and active labor act, or emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient medical condition, within the facility capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital written procedures. our obligations under emtala may increase substantially going forward; cms has recently announced its intent to issue proposed rulemaking concerning the applicability of emtala to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to inpatients under emtala is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables and historical collection experience. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed. 19 table of contents our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. 20 table of contents if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal false claims act, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, the federal anti-kickback statute and the provision of the social security act commonly known as the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, or oig, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. cms recently published a medicare self-referral disclosure protocol, which is intended to allow providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the stark law. because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the stark law, there can be no assurance that our hospitals will not be found in violation of the stark law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced penalties. these laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see item 3-legal proceedings ), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation . if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as 21 table of contents significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we may be subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits the federal false claims act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. in 2009, we agreed to settle a qui tam lawsuit relating to our south texas health system after many years of governmental investigations. some of our subsidiaries operating small behavioral healthcare facilities in virginia and california are currently the subject of governmental investigations and, in two cases, a qui tam action in which the government intervened and is charging violations of the false claims act. we cannot predict whether we will be the subject of additional investigations or whistleblower lawsuits. any determination that we have violated applicable laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on us. if any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under medicare or medicaid. the construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. all of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the medicare program. the effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. we believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. however, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the medicare or medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected. during the third quarter of 2009, southwest healthcare system ( swhcs ), which operates rancho springs medical center and inland valley regional medical center in riverside county, california, entered into an agreement with the center for medicare and medicaid services ( cms ). the agreement required swhcs to engage an independent quality monitor to assist swhcs in meeting all cms conditions of participation. further, the agreement provided that, during the last 60 days of the agreement, cms would conduct a full medicare certification survey. that survey took place the week of january 11, 2010. in april, 2010, swhcs received notification from cms that it intended to effectuate the termination of swhcs medicare provider agreement effective june 1, 2010. in may, 2010, swhcs entered into an agreement with cms which abated the termination action scheduled for june 1, 2010. the agreement is one year in duration and required swhcs to engage independent experts in various disciplines to analyze and develop implementation plans for swhcs to meet the medicare conditions of participation. at the conclusion of the 22 table of contents agreement, cms will conduct a full certification survey to determine if swhcs has achieved substantial compliance with the medicare conditions of participation. during the term of the agreement, swhcs remains eligible to receive reimbursements from medicare for services rendered to medicare beneficiaries. also in april, 2010, swhcs received notification from the california department of public health ( cdph ) indicating that it planned to initiate a process to revoke swhcs hospital license. in may, 2010, swhcs received the formal document related to the revocation action. in september, 2010, swhcs entered into an agreement with cdph relating to the license revocation. the terms of the cdph agreement are substantially similar to those contained in the agreement with cms. as a result of the agreement, swhcs hospital license remains in effect pending the outcome of the cms full certification survey which will occur at the end of the agreement. pursuant to the results of the cms full certification survey, which we anticipate occurring in mid-year, 2011, should swhcs be deemed to have achieved substantial compliance with the medicare conditions of participation, cdph shall deem swhcs license to be in good standing. failure of swhcs to achieve substantial compliance with the medicare conditions of participation, pursuant to cms full certification survey, will likely have a material adverse impact on swhcs ability to continue to operate the facilities. as a result of the matters discussed above, we were not previously permitted to open newly constructed capacity at rancho springs medical center and inland valley medical center. however, in february, 2011, we received permission from cdph to begin accessing the new capacity. unrelated to these developments, we expect a competitor to open a newly constructed acute care hospital during the first quarter of 2011. we are unable to predict the net impact of these developments on swhcs results of operations in 2011 and beyond. rancho springs medical center and inland valley medical center remain fully committed to providing high-quality healthcare to their patients and the communities they serve. we therefore intend to work expeditiously and collaboratively with both cms and cdph in an effort to resolve these matters, although there can be no assurance we will be able to do so. failure to resolve these matters could have a material adverse effect on us. for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, swhcs generated approximately 1.1% and 4.3%, respectively, of our income from operations after income attributable to noncontrolling interest. we may not be able to successfully integrate our acquisition of psi or realize the potential benefits of the acquisition, which could cause an adverse effect on us. we may not be able to combine successfully the operations of psi with our operations, and, even if such integration is accomplished, we may never realize the potential benefits of the acquisition. the integration of psi with our operations requires significant attention from management and may impose substantial demands on our operations or other projects. the integration of psi also involves a significant capital commitment, and the return that we achieve on any capital invested may be less than the return that we would achieve on our other projects or investments. any of these factors could cause delays or increased costs of combining psi with us and could adversely affect our operations, financial results and liquidity. our level of indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the acquisition of psi could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness. our level of indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the acquisition of psi could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and could potentially prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness. 23 table of contents in connection with the consummation of our acquisition of psi, in addition to undertaking a $250 million offering of notes in september, 2010, we obtained a debt financing commitment of $3.45 billion under a senior credit facility consisting of an $800 million revolving credit facility, a $1.05 billion term loan a facility and a $1.6 billion term loan b facility. the senior credit facility became effective upon closing of the acquisition of psi, which occurred in november, 2010. we also obtained an amended $240 million accounts receivable securitization facility during 2010 (increased from $200 million). as of december 31, 2010, after giving effect to the use of proceeds from the various debt financing sources mentioned above, our total debt was $3.92 billion and we had $577 million of unused borrowing capacity under our senior credit and accounts receivable securitization facilities, after taking into account $71 million of outstanding letters of credit and $3 million of outstanding borrowings pursuant to our short-term, on-demand note. subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility, the indenture that governs the notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. our leverage could result in unfavorable impact on us, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; some of our borrowings, including borrowings under the credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, and; we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our operations. our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. 24 table of contents further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. in addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility reputation could harm our business. our subsidiary, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions. our subsidiary, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see item 3-legal proceedings ). state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted certificates of need, or con, laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization 25 table of contents review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 26 table of contents we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. in addition, we have a commitment with an unrelated third party to build a newly constructed facility with a specified minimum number of beds and services. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. to fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. if any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business. the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock is subject to potential increases or decreases. at december 31, 2010, 23,588,743 shares of class b common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of class a, c and d common stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase class b common stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. class a, c and d common stock are convertible on a share for share basis into class b common stock. to the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of class b common stock, the number of shares of class b common stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the holders of class b common stock would own a smaller percentage of that class. 27 table of contents in addition, from time-to-time our board of directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our class b common stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings per share. the right to elect the majority of our board of directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of class a and c common stock, the majority of which is owned by alan b. miller, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of class a common stock vote as a class with the holders of class c common stock, and holders of class b common stock vote as a class with holders of class d common stock, with holders of all classes of our common stock entitled to one vote per share. as of march 31, 2010, the shares of class a and class c common stock constituted 7.5% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect six members of the board of directors and constituted 87.3% of our general voting power. as of march 31, 2010, the shares of class b and class d common stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 92.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect two members of the board of directors and constituted 12.7% of our general voting power. as to matters other than the election of directors, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of class a, class b, class c and class d common stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law. each share of class a common stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of class b common stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of class c common stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of class c common stock holds a number of shares of class a common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class c common stock that holder holds); and each share of class d common stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of class d common stock holds a number of shares of class b common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class d common stock that holder holds). in the event a holder of class c or class d common stock holds a number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, less than ten times the number of shares of class c or class d common stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of class c common stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of class d common stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, held by that holder. the board of directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of class a or class b common stock as class c or class d common stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records. since a substantial majority of the class a shares and class c shares are controlled by mr. alan b. miller and members of his family who are also directors and officers of our company, and they can elect a majority of our company directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company. in addition, because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. 28 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our interest expense is sensitive to changes in the general level of interest rates. to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in domestic interest rates, a portion of our debt is fixed rate accomplished by either borrowing on a long-term basis at fixed rates or by, from time to time, entering into interest rate swap and interest rate cap transactions. interest rate swap agreements require us to pay fixed and receive floating interest rates or to pay floating and receive fixed interest rates over the life of the agreements. interest rate caps provide for us to receive 83 table of contents a payment for each quarter the 3-month libor exceeds a given strike price. we may also, from time to time, enter into treasury locks ( t-locks ) to protect from a rise in the yield of the underlying treasury security for a forecasted bond issuance. effective january 1, 2009, we adopted the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities which requires additional disclosure about a company derivative activities, but does not require any new accounting related to derivative activities. we have applied the requirements of the guidance on a prospective basis. accordingly, disclosures related to interim periods prior to the date of adoption have not been presented. during the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into three interest rate caps on a total notional amount of $1.00 billion whereby we paid a premium of $240,000 in exchange for the counterparties agreeing to pay the difference between 2.25% and three-month libor if the 3 month libor rate rises above 2.25% during the term of the caps. if the three month libor does not reach 2.25% during the term of the caps, no payment is made to us. all of the caps expire on december 15, 2011. we also entered into four forward starting interest rate swaps in the fourth quarter of 2010 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $600 million and receive 3-month libor. each of the four swaps become effective on december 15, 2011 and will mature on may 15, 2015. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 2.38%. during the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into two interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional principal amount of $150 million and receive 3-month libor. each of the two interest rate swaps had an original notional principal amount of $75 million. the interest rate swaps mature on october 17, 2011 and october 5, 2012 and have fixed rates payable of 4.865% and 4.7625%, respectively. the notional amount of the interest rate swap maturing on october 17, 2011 reduced to $50 million on october 18, 2010. during the second quarter of 2006, in connection with the issuance of the $250 million of senior notes ( notes ) which have a 7.125% coupon rate and mature on june 30, 2016, we entered into t-locks, with an aggregate notional amount of $250 million, to lock in the 10-year treasury rate underlying the bond issuance. these t-locks, which were designated as cash flow hedges, were unwound during the second quarter of 2006 resulting in a $3 million cash payment to us which has been recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (net of income taxes) and is being amortized over the life of the 10-year notes. the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2010. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 2,943 $ 2,246 $ 2,238 $ 1,374 $ 201,361 $ 684,806 $ 894,968 average interest rates 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % variable rate: debt $ 506 $ 432 $ 204,455 $ 3,568 1,235,122 $ 1,576,500 $ 3,020,583 average interest rates 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.7 % 4.7 % 5.6 % 5.1 % interest rate swaps: notional amount $ 50,000 $ 75,000 $ 600,000 $ 725,000 average interest rates 4.9 % 4.8 % 2.38 % 2.8 % interest rate caps: notional amount $ 1,000,000 $ 1,000,000 average interest rates 2.25 % 2.25 % 84 table of contents as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2010 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $30 million.risk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in nevada, texas and california. nevada: we own 6 acute care hospitals and 4 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties (we owned two additional behavioral health facilities which were acquired by us from psi in november, 2010 before the facilities were divested during the third and fourth quarters of 2011 pursuant to our agreement with the federal trade commission, as discussed herein). on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 18% in 2011, 23% in 2010 and 24% in 2009 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 11% in 2011, 15% in 2010 and 14% in 2009 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. texas: we own 8 acute care hospitals and 14 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 18% in 2011, 19% in 2010 and 20% in 2009 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 14% in 2011, 15% in 2010 and 16% in 2009 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. california: we own 4 acute care hospitals and 15 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 10% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2011, 2010 and 2009. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 5% in 2011, 4% in 2010 and 5% in 2009 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. the significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in nevada, texas and california. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. 15 table of contents our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the substantial deterioration in general economic conditions and the funding requirements from the federal healthcare reform legislation, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by government payors are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we receive medicaid revenues in excess of $100 million annually from each of texas, pennsylvania, virginia, illinois and washington, d.c., making us particularly sensitive to reductions in medicaid and other state based revenue programs (which have been implemented in various forms with respect to our areas of operation in the respective 2012 state fiscal years) as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. in the states in which we operate, based upon the state budgets for the 2012 fiscal year (which generally began at various times during the second half of 2011), we estimate that, on a blended basis, our aggregate medicaid rates have been reduced by approximately 3% to 4% (or approximately $45 million to $55 million annually) from the average rates in effect during the states 2011 fiscal years (which generally ended during the third quarter of 2011). our consolidated results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2011 include the pro rata portion of these medicaid rate reductions. we can provide no assurance that further reductions to medicaid revenues (which have been proposed in certain states for fiscal year 2013), particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states could materially affect our business and future results of operations. our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. a continuation or worsening of economic conditions may result in a continued increase in the unemployment rate which will likely increase the number of individuals without health insurance. as a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or a significant increase in services provided to uninsured patients. these factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results. our patient revenues and payor mix during the last few years were adversely affected by economic conditions, particularly in certain markets, such as nevada, texas and california, where a significant portion of our revenues are concentrated and unemployment rates remain high. in our acute care business, we experienced net revenue pressures caused primarily by declining commercial payor utilization and an increase in the number 16 table of contents of uninsured and underinsured patients treated at our facilities. we can provide no assurance that these trends will not continue. during 2011, our revenues and payor mix within our acute care operations have been volatile making it difficult to predict the results for 2012 or thereafter. in addition, we recorded approximately $1.92 billion of goodwill as a result of our acquisition of psi in november, 2010, and, as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately $2.63 billion of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. should the revenues and financial results of our acute care and/or behavioral health care facilities be materially, unfavorably impacted due to, among other things, a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states that could negatively impact our patient volumes and reimbursement rates, a continued rise in the unemployment rate and continued increases in the number of uninsured patients treated at our facilities, we may incur future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. reductions or changes in medicare funding could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. on august 2, 2011, the budget control act of 2011 (the 2011 act ) was enacted into law. the 2011 act imposed annual spending limits for most federal agencies and programs aimed at reducing budget deficits by $917 billion between 2012 and 2021, according to a report released by the congressional budget office. the 2011 act provides for new spending on program integrity initiatives intended to reduce fraud and abuse under the medicare program. among its other provisions, the law established a bipartisan congressional committee, known as the joint select committee on deficit reduction (the joint committee ), which was tasked with making recommendations aimed at reducing future federal budget deficits by an additional $1.5 trillion over 10 years. the joint committee was unable to reach an agreement by the november 23, 2011 deadline and, as a result, across-the-board cuts to discretionary, national defense and medicare spending were implemented which, if triggered, would result in medicare payment reductions of up to 2% per fiscal year with a uniform percentage reduction across all medicare programs starting in 2013. we cannot predict whether congress will attempt to suspend or restructure the automatic budget cuts or what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by congress. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act (the ppaca ). the healthcare and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the reconciliation act ), which contains a number of amendments to the ppaca, was signed into law on march 30, 2010. two primary goals of the ppaca, combined with the reconciliation act (collectively referred to as the legislation ), are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses. although it is expected that as a result of the legislation there may be a reduction in uninsured patients, which should reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the legislation makes a number of other changes to medicare and medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. the legislation revises reimbursement under the medicare and medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. the legislation provides for decreases in the annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning october 1, 2011 for medicare part b reimbursable items and services and beginning october 1, 2012 for medicare inpatient hospital services. the legislation will reduce medicare and medicaid disproportionate share payments beginning in 2014, which would adversely impact the reimbursement we receive under these programs. the legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals may include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates. 17 table of contents the various provisions in the legislation that directly or indirectly affect reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. legislation provisions are likely to be affected by the incomplete nature of implementing regulations or expected forthcoming interpretive guidance, gradual implementation, future legislation, and possible judicial nullification of all or certain provisions of the legislation. further legislation provisions, such as those creating the medicare shared savings program and the independent payment advisory board, create certain flexibilities in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. thus, we cannot predict the impact of the legislation on our future reimbursement at this time. the legislation also contains provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. the legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and the false claims act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. while congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the anti-kickback statute to provide that a person is not required to have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the anti-kickback statute in order to be found guilty of violating such law, the legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the anti-kickback statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil false claims act. the legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil false claims act. the legislation also expands the recovery audit contractor program to medicaid. these amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. these investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. the legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a grandfather clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited, effective immediately, from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. the legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. the impact of the legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. because legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the legislation may be subject to further revision or judicial nullification. moreover, a number of state attorneys general are challenging the legality of certain aspects of the legislation. currently, rulings in separate federal district courts regarding the constitutionality of the legislation have been split. these decisions are in the process of being appealed to the united states supreme court. we cannot predict the impact the legislation may have on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity, the ultimate outcome of the judicial rulings or whether we will be able to successfully adapt to the changes required by the legislation. we are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the emergency medical treatment and active labor act, or emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient medical condition, within the facility capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital written procedures. our obligations under emtala may increase substantially going forward; cms has recently sought stakeholder comments concerning the potential applicability of emtala to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to inpatients under emtala is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed. 18 table of contents if we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors. in recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. cms publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the medicare program. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additionally, the legislation requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results on the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and pricing. this circumstance could harm our business and results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. however, we also have substantial receivables due to us as of december 31, 2011 (a significant portion of which is past due) from certain state-based funding programs, most particularly illinois. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables, historical collection experience and assessment of probability of future collections. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees 19 table of contents of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. the loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. if we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. the technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. to compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. if our facilities do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. if we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems, our operations could be harmed. as required by hitech, we are in the process of developing and implementing an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health record technology. if our facilities or physicians are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing an electronic health record system. further, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, eligible hospitals and professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology will be subject to reduced payments from medicare. any failure by us to effectively implement an electronic health record system in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to 20 table of contents raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal false claims act, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, the federal anti-kickback statute and the provision of the social security act commonly known as the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, or oig, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. cms recently published a medicare self-referral disclosure protocol, which is intended to allow providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the stark law. because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the stark law, there can be no assurance that our hospitals will not be found in violation of the stark law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced penalties. federal regulations issued under hipaa contain provisions that require us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient health and related financial information. such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. these laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see item 3-legal proceedings ), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation . if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from 21 table of contents participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we may be subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits the federal false claims act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. if any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under medicare or medicaid. the construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. all of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the medicare program. the effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. we believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. however, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the medicare or medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected. our level of indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the acquisition of psi could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness. our level of indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the acquisition of psi could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and could potentially prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness. in connection with the consummation of our acquisition of psi, in addition to previously existing outstanding debt commitments and undertaking a $250 million offering of notes in september, 2010, we obtained a debt financing commitment of $3.45 billion under a senior credit facility consisting of an $800 million revolving credit facility, a $1.05 billion term loan a facility and a $1.6 billion term loan b facility. the senior credit facility became effective upon closing of the acquisition of psi, which occurred in november, 2010. we also obtained an amended $240 million accounts receivable securitization facility during 2010 (increased from $200 million). as of december 31, 2011, after giving effect to the use of proceeds from the various debt financing sources mentioned above, and after giving effect to our 2011 consolidated results of operations and cash flows, our total 22 table of contents debt was $3.65 billion and we had $482 million of unused borrowing capacity under our senior credit and accounts receivable securitization facilities, after taking into account $69 million of outstanding letters of credit and $9 million of outstanding borrowings pursuant to our short-term, on-demand note. subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility, the indenture that governs the notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. our leverage could result in unfavorable impact on us, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; some of our borrowings, including borrowings under the credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, and; we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our operations. our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired 23 table of contents hospitals. integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. in addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility reputation could harm our business. our subsidiary, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions. our subsidiary, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see item 3-legal proceedings ). state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted certificates of need, or con, laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 24 table of contents fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. a cyber security incident could cause a violation of hipaa, breach of member privacy, or other negative impacts. a cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology ( it ) security systems causing an it security breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws, loss of proprietary business information, or a material disruption of our it business systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business and result of operations. in addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of public health information, other confidential data or proprietary business information. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 25 table of contents we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. in addition, we have a commitment with an unrelated third party to build a newly constructed facility with a specified minimum number of beds and services. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. to fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. if any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business. the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock is subject to potential increases or decreases. at december 31, 2011, 31.2 million shares of class b common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of class a, c and d common stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase class b common stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. class a, c and d common stock are convertible on a share for share basis into class b common stock. to the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of class b common stock, the number of shares of class b common stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the holders of class b common stock would own a smaller percentage of that class. 26 table of contents in addition, from time-to-time our board of directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our class b common stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings per share. the right to elect the majority of our board of directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of class a and c common stock, the majority of which is owned by alan b. miller, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of class a common stock vote as a class with the holders of class c common stock, and holders of class b common stock vote as a class with holders of class d common stock, with holders of all classes of our common stock entitled to one vote per share. as of march 31, 2011, the shares of class a and class c common stock constituted 7.5% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect six members of the board of directors and constituted 87.2% of our general voting power. as of march 31, 2011, the shares of class b and class d common stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 92.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect two members of the board of directors and constituted 12.8% of our general voting power. as to matters other than the election of directors, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of class a, class b, class c and class d common stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law. each share of class a common stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of class b common stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of class c common stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of class c common stock holds a number of shares of class a common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class c common stock that holder holds); and each share of class d common stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of class d common stock holds a number of shares of class b common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class d common stock that holder holds). in the event a holder of class c or class d common stock holds a number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, less than ten times the number of shares of class c or class d common stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of class c common stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of class d common stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, held by that holder. the board of directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of class a or class b common stock as class c or class d common stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records. since a substantial majority of the class a shares and class c shares are controlled by mr. alan b. miller and members of his family who are also directors and officers of our company, and they can elect a majority of our company directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company. in addition, because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. 27 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. to manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. we account for our derivative and hedging activities using the financial accounting standard board ( fasb ) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. for derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. cash flow hedges 80 table of contents are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) within shareholders equity. amounts are reclassified from aoci to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. we use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement. for hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. the fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. we assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. we performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2011 and 2010 and determined the hedges to be highly effective. we also determined that no portion of the hedges is ineffective and therefore there was no material effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or cash flows. the counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. however, at december 31, 2011, each swap agreement entered into by us was in a net liability position which would require us to make the net settlement payments to the counterparties. we do not anticipate nonperformance by those counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. during the first quarter of 2011, we entered into an interest rate cap on a total notional amount of $275 million whereby we paid a premium of $30,000 in exchange for the counterparty agreeing to pay the difference between 2.25% and three-month libor if the three-month libor rate rises above 2.25% during the term of the cap, which expired in december, 2011. the three-month libor never reached 2.25% during the term of the cap. therefore, no payment was made to us. we also entered into a forward starting interest rate cap on a total notional amount of $450 million from december, 2011 to december, 2012 reducing to $400 million from december, 2012 to december, 2013 whereby we paid a premium of $740,000 in exchange for the counterparty agreeing to pay the difference between 7.00% and three-month libor if the three-month libor rate rises above 7.00% during the term of the cap. if the three-month libor does not reach 7.00% during the term of the cap, no payment is made to us. we also entered into six additional forward starting interest rate swaps in the first quarter of 2011 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $425 million and receive three-month libor. three of these swaps with a total notional amount of $225 million became effective in march, 2011 and will mature in may, 2015. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 1.91%. the three remaining interest rate swaps with total notional amounts of $100 million, $25 million and $75 million became effective in december, 2011 and have fixed rates of 2.50%, 1.96% and 1.32%, and maturity dates in december, 2014, december, 2013 and december, 2012, respectively. during the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into three interest rate caps on a total notional amount of $1 billion whereby we paid a premium of $240,000 in exchange for the counterparties agreeing to pay the difference between 2.25% and three-month libor if the three-month libor rate rises above 2.25% during the term of the caps. all of these caps expired in december, 2011. the three-month libor rate never rose above 2.25% during the term of the caps. therefore, no payments were made to us. we also entered into four forward starting interest rate swaps in the fourth quarter of 2010 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $600 million and receive three-month libor. each of the four swaps became effective in december, 2011 and will mature in may, 2015. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 2.38%. 81 table of contents during the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into two interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional principal amount of $150 million and receive three-month libor. each of the two interest rate swaps had an initial notional principal amount of $75 million. the notional amount of the first interest rate swap reduced to $50 million in october, 2010.the fixed rate payable is 4.76% and it matures in october, 2012. the fixed rate payable on the second interest rate swap was 4.87% and it matured in october, 2011. we measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. the fair value of our interest rate swaps is based primarily on quotes from banks. we consider those inputs to be level 3 in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $48 million at december 31, 2011, of which $4 million is included in other current liabilities and $44 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $10 million at december 31, 2010, of which $2 million is included in other current liabilities and $8 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities. the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2011. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 2,056 $ 2,110 $ 1,487 $ 17,538 $ 401,193 $ 274,042 $ 698,426 average interest rates 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.1 % 6.9 % 7.0 % variable rate: debt $ 423 $ 240,528 $ 2,483 $ 1,272,547 $ 1,439,500 $ $ 2,955,481 average interest rates 2.9 % 2.9 % 3.1 % 3.1 % 3.8 % 3.4 % interest rate swaps: notional amount $ 150,000 $ 2 5,000 $ 100,000 $ 825,000 $ 1,100,000 average interest rates 3.0 % 2.0 % 2.5 % 2.3 % 2.4 % interest rate caps: notional amount $ 450,000 $ 450,000 average interest rates 7.00 % 7.00 % as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2011 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $30 million.risk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in nevada, texas and california. nevada: we own 6 acute care hospitals and 4 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties (we owned two additional behavioral health facilities which were acquired by us from psi in november, 2010 before the facilities were divested during the third and fourth quarters of 2011 pursuant to our agreement with the federal trade commission, as discussed herein). on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 16% in 2012, 17% in 2011 and 21% in 2010 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 8% in 2012, 11% in 2011 and 15% in 2010 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. texas: we own 7 acute care hospitals and 21 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 18% in 2012, 18% in 2011 and 20% in 2010 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 12% in 2012, 14% in 2011 and 15% in 2010 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. california: we own 4 acute care hospitals and 6 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 10% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2012, 2011 and 2010. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 6% in 2012, 5% in 2011 and 4% in 2010 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. the significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in nevada, texas and california. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the substantial deterioration in general economic conditions and the funding requirements from the federal healthcare reform legislation, may affect the availability of 15 table of contents taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by government payors are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we receive medicaid revenues in excess of $90 million annually from each of texas, pennsylvania, washington, d.c., virginia, illinois and massachusetts, making us particularly sensitive to reductions in medicaid and other state based revenue programs (which have been implemented in various forms with respect to our areas of operation in the respective 2013 state fiscal years) as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. in the states in which we operate, based upon the state budgets for the 2012 fiscal year (which generally began at various times during the second half of 2011), we estimate that, on a blended basis, our aggregate medicaid rates have been reduced by approximately 3% to 4% (or approximately $45 million to $55 million annually) from the average rates in effect during the states 2011 fiscal years (which generally ended during the third quarter of 2011). our consolidated results of operations during 2012 and 2011 include the pro rata portion of these medicaid rate reductions. based upon the state budgets for the 2013 fiscal year (which generally began at various times during the second half of 2012), we estimate that, on a blended basis, our aggregate medicaid rates will be reduced by approximately 1% (or approximately $15 million annually) from the average rates in effect during the states 2012 fiscal years (which generally ended during the third quarter of 2012). we can provide no assurance that further reductions to medicaid revenues, particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states could materially affect our business and future results of operations. our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. a continuation or worsening of economic conditions may result in a continued high unemployment rate which will likely increase the number of individuals without health insurance. as a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or a significant increase in services provided to uninsured patients. these factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results. our patient revenues and payor mix during the last few years were adversely affected by economic conditions, particularly in certain markets, such as nevada, texas and california, where a significant portion of our revenues are concentrated and unemployment rates remain high. in our acute care business, we experienced net revenue pressures caused primarily by declining commercial payor utilization and an increase in the number of uninsured and underinsured patients treated at our facilities. we can provide no assurance that these trends will not continue. during 2012, our revenues and payor mix within our acute care operations have been volatile making it difficult to predict the results for 2013 or thereafter. in addition, we recorded approximately $2.37 billion of aggregate goodwill as a result of our acquisition of psi in november, 2010 and ascend in october, 2012, and, as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately $3.04 billion of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. should the revenues and financial results of our acute care and/or behavioral health care facilities be materially, unfavorably impacted due to, among other 16 table of contents things, a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states that could negatively impact our patient volumes and reimbursement rates, a continued rise in the unemployment rate and continued increases in the number of uninsured patients treated at our facilities, we may incur future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. reductions or changes in medicare funding could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. on january 3, 2013, president obama signed into law the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 (the 2012 act ). the 2012 act postponed for two months sequestration cuts mandated under the budget control act of 2011. the postponed sequestration cuts include a 2% annual reduction over ten years in medicare spending to providers. medicaid is exempt from sequestration. the 2012 act provides a one-year fix to statutory reductions in physician reimbursement and extends other medicare provisions. in order to offset the cost of these extensions, the 2012 act reduces payments to other providers totaling almost $26 billion over ten years. approximately half of those funds will come from reductions in medicare reimbursement to hospitals. please see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, sources of revenue-medicare , for additional disclosure. the 2012 act includes a document and coding ( dci ) adjustment and a reduction in medicaid dsh payments. expected to save $10.5 billion over 10 years, the dci adjustment decreases projected medicare hospital payments for inpatient and overnight care through a downward adjustment in annual base payment increases. these reductions are meant to recoup what medicare authorities consider to be overpayments to hospitals that occurred as a result of the transition to medicare severity diagnosis related groups. the reduction in medicaid dsh payments is expected to save $4.2 billion over 10 years. this provision extends the changes regarding dsh payments established by the legislation and determines future allotments off of the rebased level. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act (the ppaca ). the healthcare and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the reconciliation act ), which contains a number of amendments to the ppaca, was signed into law on march 30, 2010. two primary goals of the ppaca, combined with the reconciliation act (collectively referred to as the legislation ), are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses. although it is expected that as a result of the legislation there may be a reduction in uninsured patients, which should reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the legislation makes a number of other changes to medicare and medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. the legislation revises reimbursement under the medicare and medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. the legislation provides for decreases in the annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning october 1, 2011 for medicare part b reimbursable items and services and beginning october 1, 2012 for medicare inpatient hospital services. the legislation will reduce medicare and medicaid disproportionate share hospital payments ( dsh ) beginning in 2014, which would adversely impact the reimbursement we receive under these programs. the legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals will include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates. a recent u.s. supreme court ruling limited the federal government ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional sections of the legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain medicaid coverage requirements. pursuant to that decision, the federal government 17 table of contents may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the medicaid expansion program by reducing their existing medicaid funding. therefore, states can choose to accept or not to participate without risking the loss of federal medicaid funding. as a result, it remains unclear whether states will adopt legislation medicaid expansion provisions without the threat of loss of federal funding. the various provisions in the legislation that directly or indirectly affect medicare and medicaid reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. the impact of the legislation on healthcare providers will be subject to implementing regulations, interpretive guidance and possible future legislation. certain legislation provisions, such as those creating the medicare shared savings program and the independent payment advisory board, create uncertainty in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. thus, we cannot predict the impact of the legislation on our future reimbursement at this time and we can provide no assurance that the legislation will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. the legislation also contains provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. the legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and the false claims act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. while congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the anti-kickback statute to provide that a person is not required to have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the anti-kickback statute in order to be found in violation of such law, the legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the anti-kickback statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil false claims act. the legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil false claims act, although final regulations implementing this statutory requirement remain pending. the legislation also expands the recovery audit contractor program to medicaid. these amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. these investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. the legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a grandfather clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. the legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. the impact of the legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. because legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the legislation may be subject to further revision. we cannot predict the impact the legislation may have on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity, or whether we will be able to successfully adapt to the changes required by the legislation. we are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the emergency medical treatment and active labor act, or emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient medical condition, within the facility capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital written procedures. our obligations under emtala may increase substantially going forward; cms has sought stakeholder comments concerning the potential applicability of 18 table of contents emtala to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively, but has yet to issue further guidance in response to that request. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to inpatients under emtala is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed. if we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors. in recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. cms publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the medicare program. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additionally, the legislation requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results on the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and pricing. this circumstance could harm our business and results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. however, we also have substantial receivables due to us as of december 31, 2012 (a significant portion of which is past due) from certain state-based funding programs, most particularly illinois. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables, historical collection experience and assessment of probability of future collections. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. 19 table of contents our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. the loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. if we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. the technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. to compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. if our facilities do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. if we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems, our operations could be harmed. as required by hitech, we are in the process of developing and implementing an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health record technology. if our facilities or physicians are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing an electronic health record system. further, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, eligible hospitals and professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology will be subject to reduced payments from medicare. any failure by us to effectively implement an electronic health record system in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to 20 table of contents recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. union organizing activities and certain potential changes in federal labor laws and regulations could increase the likelihood of employee unionization in the future, to the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionized, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal false claims act, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, the federal anti-kickback statute and the provision of the social security act commonly known as the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, or oig, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. cms recently published a medicare self-referral disclosure protocol, which is intended to allow providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the stark law. because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the stark law, there can be no assurance that our hospitals will not be found in violation of the stark law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced penalties. federal regulations issued under hipaa contain provisions that require us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient health and related financial information. such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many 21 table of contents of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. additionally, recent changes to hipaa regulations may result in greater compliance requirements, including obligations to report breaches of unsecured patient data, as well as create new liabilities for the actions of parties acting as business associates on our behalf. these laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see item 3-legal proceedings ), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation . if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other hazardous materials. if we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we may be subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits the federal false claims act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. these private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of whistleblower lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent years. because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. please see item 3 . legal proceedings for disclosure of current related matters. 22 table of contents the failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain facilities, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals. the economies in the non-urban communities in which our hospitals operate are often dependant on a small number of large employers. those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care facilities for their care. the failure of one or more large employer or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. the occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business. if any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under medicare or medicaid. the construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. all of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the medicare program. the effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. we believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. however, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the medicare or medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected. our level of indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the acquisitions of psi and ascend could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness. our level of indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the acquisitions of psi and ascend could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and could potentially prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness. as of december 31, 2012, our total debt was $3.73 billion and we had $600 million of unused borrowing capacity under our credit agreement and accounts receivable securitization facilities, after taking into account outstanding letters of credit. subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility, the indenture that governs the notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. our leverage could result in unfavorable impact on us, including the following: it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; 23 table of contents a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; some of our borrowings, including borrowings under the credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, and; we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our operations. our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. in addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude 24 table of contents significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility reputation could harm our business. our subsidiaries, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions. our subsidiaries, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see item 3-legal proceedings ). state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted certificates of need, or con, laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press 25 table of contents or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. a cyber security incident could cause a violation of hipaa, breach of member privacy, or other negative impacts. a cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology ( it ) security systems causing an it security breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws, loss of proprietary business information, or a material disruption of our it business systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business and result of operations. in addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of public health information, other confidential data or proprietary business information. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. 26 table of contents the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. to fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. if any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business. the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock is subject to potential increases or decreases. at december 31, 2012, 28.1 million shares of class b common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of class a, c and d common stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase class b common stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. class a, c and d common stock are convertible on a share for share basis into class b common stock. to the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of class b common stock, the number of shares of class b common stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the holders of class b common stock would own a smaller percentage of that class. in addition, from time-to-time our board of directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our class b common stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings per share. 27 table of contents the right to elect the majority of our board of directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of class a and c common stock, the majority of which is owned by alan b. miller, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of class a common stock vote as a class with the holders of class c common stock, and holders of class b common stock vote as a class with holders of class d common stock, with holders of all classes of our common stock entitled to one vote per share. as of march 21, 2012, the shares of class a and class c common stock constituted 7.5% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect five members of the board of directors and constituted 87.3% of our general voting power. as of march 21, 2012, the shares of class b and class d common stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 92.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect two members of the board of directors and constituted 12.7% of our general voting power. as to matters other than the election of directors, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of class a, class b, class c and class d common stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law. each share of class a common stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of class b common stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of class c common stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of class c common stock holds a number of shares of class a common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class c common stock that holder holds); and each share of class d common stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of class d common stock holds a number of shares of class b common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class d common stock that holder holds). in the event a holder of class c or class d common stock holds a number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, less than ten times the number of shares of class c or class d common stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of class c common stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of class d common stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, held by that holder. the board of directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of class a or class b common stock as class c or class d common stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records. since a substantial majority of the class a shares and class c shares are controlled by mr. alan b. miller and members of his family who are also directors and officers of our company, and they can elect a majority of our company directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company. in addition, because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. to manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. we account for our derivative and hedging activities using the financial accounting standard board ( fasb ) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. for derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. 87 table of contents derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) within shareholders equity. amounts are reclassified from aoci to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. we use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement. for hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. the fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. we assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. we performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2012 and 2011 and determined the hedges to be highly effective. we also determined that any portion of the hedges deemed to be ineffective was de minimis and therefore there was no material effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or cash flows. the counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. however, at december 31, 2012, each swap agreement entered into by us was in a net liability position which would require us to make the net settlement payments to the counterparties. we do not anticipate nonperformance by our counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. during the first quarter of 2011, we entered into an interest rate cap on a total notional amount of $275 million whereby we paid a premium of $30,000 in exchange for the counterparty agreeing to pay the difference between 2.25% and three-month libor if the three-month libor rate rises above 2.25% during the term of the cap, which expired in december, 2011. the three-month libor never reached 2.25% during the term of the cap. therefore, no payment was made to us. we also entered into a forward starting interest rate cap on a total notional amount of $450 million from december, 2011 to december, 2012 reducing to $400 million from december, 2012 to december, 2013 whereby we paid a premium of $740,000 in exchange for the counterparty agreeing to pay the difference between 7.00% and three-month libor if the three-month libor rate rises above 7.00% during the term of the cap. if the three-month libor does not reach 7.00% during the term of the cap, no payment is made to us. we also entered into six additional forward starting interest rate swaps in the first quarter of 2011 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $425 million and receive three-month libor. three of these swaps with a total notional amount of $225 million became effective in march, 2011 and will mature in may, 2015. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 1.91%. the three remaining interest rate swaps with total notional amounts of $100 million, $25 million and $75 million became effective in december, 2011 and have fixed rates of 2.50%, 1.96% and 1.32%, and maturity dates in december, 2014, december, 2013 and december, 2012, respectively. during the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into three interest rate caps on a total notional amount of $1 billion whereby we paid a premium of $240,000 in exchange for the counterparties agreeing to pay the difference between 2.25% and three-month libor if the three-month libor rate rises above 2.25% during the term of the caps. all of these caps expired in december, 2011. the three-month libor rate never rose above 2.25% during the term of the caps. therefore, no payments were made to us. we also entered into four forward starting interest rate swaps in the fourth quarter of 2010 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount 88 table of contents of $600 million and receive three-month libor. each of the four swaps became effective in december, 2011 and will mature in may, 2015. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 2.38%. during the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into two interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional principal amount of $150 million and receive three-month libor. each of the two interest rate swaps had an initial notional principal amount of $75 million. the notional amount of the first interest rate swap reduced to $50 million in october, 2010.the fixed rate payable was 4.76% and it matured in october, 2012. the fixed rate payable on the second interest rate swap was 4.87% and it matured in october, 2011. we measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. the fair value of our interest rate swaps is based primarily on quotes from banks. we consider those inputs to be level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $41 million at december 31, 2012, substantially all of which is included in other noncurrent liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. at december 31, 2011, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $48 million, of which $4 million is included in other current liabilities and $44 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2012. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 1,974 $ 1,720 $ 17,404 $ 401,188 $ 1,262 $ 272,776 $ 696,324 average interest rates 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 6.9 % 6.9 % 7.0 % variable rate: debt $ 615 $ 292 $ 51,184 $ 2,981,605 $ 3,033,696 average interest rates 2.3 % 2.3 % 3.3 % 2.3 % 2.3 % interest rate swaps: notional amount $ 25,000 $ 100,000 $ 825,000 $ 950,000 average interest rates 2.0 % 2.5 % 2.3 % 2.3 % interest rate caps: notional amount $ 400,000 $ 400,000 average interest rates 7.00 % 7.00 % as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2012 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $21 million.risk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in nevada, texas and california. nevada: we own 6 acute care hospitals and 4 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties (we owned two additional behavioral health facilities which were acquired by us from psi in november, 2010 before the facilities were divested during the third and fourth quarters of 2011 pursuant to our agreement with the federal trade commission, as discussed herein). on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 16% during each of 2013 and 2012 and 17% in 2011 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 6% in 2013, 8% in 2012, and 11% in 2011 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. texas: we own 7 acute care hospitals and 22 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 18% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2013, 2012 and 2011. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 15% in 2013, 12% in 2012, and 14% in 2011 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. california: we own 5 acute care hospitals and 6 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 9% in 2013 and 10% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2012 and 2011. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 4% in 2013, 6% in 2012, and 5% in 2011 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. the significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in nevada, texas and california. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the substantial deterioration in general economic conditions and the funding requirements from the federal healthcare reform legislation, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by government payors are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we receive medicaid revenues in excess of $90 million annually from each of texas, pennsylvania, washington, d.c., illinois, virginia and massachusetts, making us particularly sensitive to reductions in 15 table of contents medicaid and other state based revenue programs (which have been implemented in various forms with respect to our areas of operation in the respective 2013 state fiscal years) as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. based upon the state budgets for the 2013 fiscal year (which generally began at various times during the second half of 2012), we estimate that, on a blended basis, our aggregate medicaid rates were reduced by approximately 1% (or approximately $15 million annually) from the average rates in effect during the states 2012 fiscal years (which generally ended during the third quarter of 2012). based upon the state budgets for the 2014 fiscal year (which will generally began at various times during the second half of 2013), we estimate that, on a blended basis, our aggregate medicaid rates will remain relatively unchanged from the 2013 fiscal year rates. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states could materially affect our business and future results of operations. our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. a continuation or worsening of economic conditions may result in a continued high unemployment rate which will likely increase the number of individuals without health insurance. as a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or a significant increase in services provided to uninsured patients. these factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results. our patient revenues and payor mix during the last few years were adversely affected by economic conditions, particularly in certain markets, such as nevada, texas and california, where a significant portion of our revenues are concentrated and unemployment rates remain high. in our acute care business, we experienced net revenue pressures caused primarily by declining commercial payor utilization and an increase in the number of uninsured and underinsured patients treated at our facilities. we can provide no assurance that these trends will not continue. during 2013, our revenues and payor mix within our acute care operations have been volatile making it difficult to predict the results for 2014 or thereafter. in addition, we recorded approximately $2.37 billion of aggregate goodwill as a result of our acquisition of psi in november, 2010 and ascend in october, 2012, and, as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $3.05 billion of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. should the revenues and financial results of our acute care and/or behavioral health care facilities be materially, unfavorably impacted due to, among other things, a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states that could negatively impact our patient volumes and reimbursement rates, a continued rise in the unemployment rate and continued increases in the number of uninsured patients treated at our facilities, we may incur future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. reductions or changes in medicare funding could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. on january 3, 2013, president obama signed into law the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 (the 2012 act ). the 2012 act postponed for two months sequestration cuts mandated under the budget control act of 16 table of contents 2011. the postponed sequestration cuts include a 2% annual reduction over ten years in medicare spending to providers. medicaid is exempt from sequestration. the 2012 act provides a one-year fix to statutory reductions in physician reimbursement and extends other medicare provisions. in order to offset the cost of these extensions, the 2012 act reduces payments to other providers totaling almost $26 billion over ten years. approximately half of those funds will come from reductions in medicare reimbursement to hospitals. although the bipartisan budget act of 2013 has reduced certain sequestration-related budgetary cuts, spending reductions related to the medicare program remain in place. on december 26, 2013, president obama signed into law h.j. res. 59, the bipartisan budget act of 2013, which includes the pathway for sgr reform act of 2013 ( the act ). in addition, on february 15, 2014, public law 113-082 was enacted. the act and subsequent federal legislation achieves new savings by extending sequestration for mandatory programs including medicare for another three years, through 2024. please see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, sources of revenue-medicare , for additional disclosure. the 2012 act includes a document and coding ( dci ) adjustment and a reduction in medicaid disproportionate share hospital ( dsh ) payments. expected to save $10.5 billion over 10 years, the dci adjustment decreases projected medicare hospital payments for inpatient and overnight care through a downward adjustment in annual base payment increases. these reductions are meant to recoup what medicare authorities consider to be overpayments to hospitals that occurred as a result of the transition to medicare severity diagnosis related groups. the reduction in medicaid dsh payments is expected to save $4.2 billion over 10 years. this provision extends the changes regarding dsh payments established by the legislation and determines future allotments off of the rebased level. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act (the ppaca ). the healthcare and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the reconciliation act ), which contains a number of amendments to the ppaca, was signed into law on march 30, 2010. two primary goals of the ppaca, combined with the reconciliation act (collectively referred to as the legislation ), are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses. although it is expected that as a result of the legislation there may be a reduction in uninsured patients, which should reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the legislation makes a number of other changes to medicare and medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. it has been projected that the legislation will result in a net reduction in medicare and medicaid payments to hospitals totaling $155 billion over 10 years. the legislation revises reimbursement under the medicare and medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. the legislation provides for decreases in the annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning october 1, 2011 for medicare part b reimbursable items and services and beginning october 1, 2012 for medicare inpatient hospital services. the legislation and subsequent revisions provide for reductions to both medicare dsh and medicaid dsh payments. the medicare dsh reductions began in october, 2013 with no material adverse impact to the reimbursements we receive expected until 2015 while medicaid dsh reimbursements would not be adversely impacted until 2016. the legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals will include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates. a 2012 u.s. supreme court ruling limited the federal government ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional sections of the legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain medicaid coverage requirements. pursuant to that decision, the federal government may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the medicaid expansion program by reducing their existing medicaid funding. therefore, states can choose to accept or not to participate without risking the loss of 17 table of contents federal medicaid funding. as a result, many states, including texas, have not expanded their medicaid programs without the threat of loss of federal funding. the various provisions in the legislation that directly or indirectly affect medicare and medicaid reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. the impact of the legislation on healthcare providers will be subject to implementing regulations, interpretive guidance and possible future legislation. certain legislation provisions, such as those creating the medicare shared savings program and the independent payment advisory board, create uncertainty in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. thus, we cannot predict the impact of the legislation on our future reimbursement at this time and we can provide no assurance that the legislation will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. the legislation also contained provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. the legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and the false claims act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. while congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the anti-kickback statute to provide that a person is not required to have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the anti-kickback statute in order to be found in violation of such law, the legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the anti-kickback statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil false claims act. the legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil false claims act, although final regulations implementing this statutory requirement remain pending. the legislation also expands the recovery audit contractor program to medicaid. these amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. these investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. the legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a grandfather clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. the legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. the impact of the legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. because legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the legislation may be subject to further revision. we cannot predict the impact the legislation may have on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity, or whether we will be able to successfully adapt to the changes required by the legislation. we are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the emergency medical treatment and active labor act, or emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient medical condition, within the facility capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital written procedures. our obligations under emtala may increase substantially going forward; cms has sought stakeholder comments concerning the potential applicability of emtala to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively, but has yet to issue further guidance in response to that request. if the number of indigent and charity care 18 table of contents patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to inpatients under emtala is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed. if we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors. in recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. cms publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the medicare program. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additionally, the legislation requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results on the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and pricing. this circumstance could harm our business and results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. however, we also have substantial receivables due to us as of december 31, 2013 (a significant portion of which is past due) from certain state-based funding programs, most particularly illinois and texas as discussed herein. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables, historical collection experience and assessment of probability of future collections. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. 19 table of contents our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. the loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. if we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. the technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. to compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. if our facilities do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. if we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems, our operations could be harmed. as required by hitech, we are in the process of developing and implementing an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health record technology. if our facilities or physicians are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing an electronic health record system. further, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, eligible hospitals and professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology will be subject to reduced payments from medicare. any failure by us to effectively implement an electronic health record system in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. 20 table of contents the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. union organizing activities and certain potential changes in federal labor laws and regulations could increase the likelihood of employee unionization in the future, to the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionized, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal false claims act, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, ( hipaa ), the federal anti-kickback statute and the provision of the social security act commonly known as the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, or oig, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. cms recently published a medicare self-referral disclosure protocol, which is intended to allow providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the stark law. because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the stark law, there can be no assurance that our hospitals will not be found in violation of the stark law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced penalties. federal regulations issued under hipaa contain provisions that require us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient health and related financial information. such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical 21 table of contents requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. additionally, recent changes to hipaa regulations may result in greater compliance requirements, including obligations to report breaches of unsecured patient data, as well as create new liabilities for the actions of parties acting as business associates on our behalf. these laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see item 3-legal proceedings ), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation . if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other hazardous materials. if we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. in an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we may be subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits the federal false claims act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government 22 table of contents alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. these private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of whistleblower lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent years. because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. please see item 3. legal proceedings for disclosure of current related matters. the failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain facilities, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals. the economies in the non-urban communities in which our hospitals operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers. those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care facilities for their care. the failure of one or more large employer or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. the occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business. if any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under medicare or medicaid. the construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. all of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the medicare program. the effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. we believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. however, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the medicare or medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected. our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. 23 table of contents further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. in addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility reputation could harm our business. our subsidiaries, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions. our subsidiaries, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see item 3-legal proceedings ). state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted certificates of need, or con, laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient 24 table of contents utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control. our revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians clinical decisions and availability, payor programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme low temperatures, hurricanes and tornados, earthquakes, current local economic and demographic changes. in addition, technological developments and pharmaceutical improvements may reduce the demand for healthcare services or the profitability of the services we offer. fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. 25 table of contents a cyber security incident could cause a violation of hipaa, breach of member privacy, or other negative impacts. a cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology ( it ) security systems causing an it security breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws, loss of proprietary business information, or a material disruption of our it business systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business and result of operations. in addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of public health information, other confidential data or proprietary business information. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. to fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. if any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 26 table of contents we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business. the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock is subject to potential increases or decreases. at december 31, 2013, 25.7 million shares of class b common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of class a, c and d common stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase class b common stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. class a, c and d common stock are convertible on a share for share basis into class b common stock. to the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of class b common stock, the number of shares of class b common stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the current holders of class b common stock would own a smaller percentage of that class. in addition, from time-to-time our board of directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our class b common stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings per share. the right to elect the majority of our board of directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of class a and c common stock, the majority of which is owned by alan b. miller, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of class a common stock vote as a class with the holders of class c common stock, and holders of class b common stock vote as a class with holders of class d common stock, with holders of all classes of our common stock entitled to one vote per share. as of march 21, 2013, the shares of class a and class c common stock constituted 6.9% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect five members of the board of directors and constituted 86.2% of our general voting power. as of march 21, 2013, the shares of class b and class d common stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 93.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect two members of the board of directors and constituted 13.8% of our general voting power. as to matters other than the election of directors, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of class a, class b, class c and class d common stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law. each share of class a common stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of class b common stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of class c common stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of class c common stock holds a number of shares of 27 table of contents class a common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class c common stock that holder holds); and each share of class d common stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of class d common stock holds a number of shares of class b common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class d common stock that holder holds). in the event a holder of class c or class d common stock holds a number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, less than ten times the number of shares of class c or class d common stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of class c common stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of class d common stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, held by that holder. the board of directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of class a or class b common stock as class c or class d common stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records. since a substantial majority of the class a shares and class c shares are controlled by mr. alan b. miller and members of his family who are also directors and officers of our company, and they can elect a majority of our company directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company. in addition, because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. to manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. we account for our derivative and hedging activities using the financial accounting standard board ( fasb ) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. for derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) within shareholders equity. amounts are reclassified from aoci to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. we use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement. for hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. the fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. we assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. we performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2013 and 2012 and determined the hedges to be highly effective. we also determined that any portion of the hedges deemed to be ineffective was de minimis and therefore there was no material effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or cash flows. the counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. however, at december 31, 2013, each swap agreement entered into by us was in a net liability position which would require us to make the net settlement payments to the counterparties. we do not anticipate nonperformance by our counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. during 2011, we entered into a forward starting interest rate cap on a total notional amount of $450 million from december, 2011 to december, 2012 reducing to $400 million from december, 2012 to december, 2013 whereby we paid a premium of $740,000 in exchange for the counterparty agreeing to pay the difference between 7.00% and three-month libor if the three-month libor rate rises above 7.00% during the term of the cap. the three-month libor never reached 7.00% during the term of the cap, which expired in december, 2013, and therefore no payment was made to us. we also entered into six forward starting interest rate swaps in 2011 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $425 million and receive three-month libor. three of these swaps with a total notional amount of $225 million became effective in march, 2011 and will mature in may, 2015. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 1.91%. the three remaining interest rate swaps with total notional amounts of $75 million, $25 million and $100 million became effective in december, 2011 and have corresponding fixed rates of 1.32%, 1.96% and 2.50%. the $75 million and $25 million interest rate swaps matured in december, 2012 and december, 2013, respectively, and the $100 million interest rate swap is scheduled to mature in december, 2014. 88 table of contents during 2010, we entered into four forward starting interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $600 million and receive three-month libor. each of the four swaps became effective in december, 2011 and will mature in may, 2015. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 2.38%. during the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into two interest rate swaps whereby we paid a fixed rate on a total notional principal amount of $150 million and received three-month libor. each of the two interest rate swaps, which are now expired, had an initial notional principal amount of $75 million. the fixed rate payable on one of the interest rate swaps was 4.87% and it matured in october, 2011. the fixed rate payable on the other interest rate swap, on which the notional principal amount reduced to $50 million in october, 2010, was 4.76% and it matured in october, 2012. we measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. the fair value of our interest rate swaps is based primarily on quotes from banks. we consider those inputs to be level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $24 million at december 31, 2013, of which $19 million is included in other current liabilities and $5 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. at december 31, 2012, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $41 million, substantially all of which is included in other noncurrent liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2013. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 1,909 $ 18,003 $ 401,720 $ 1,798 $ 251,893 $ 12,241 $ 687,564 average interest rates 7.0 % 7.0 % 7.0 % 6.9 % 6.9 % 6.1 % 6.8 % variable rate: debt $ 97,403 $ 121,258 $ 2,402,849 $ 2,621,510 average interest rates 1.8 % 1.8 % 1.8 % 1.8 % interest rate swaps: notional amount $ 100,000 $ 825,000 $ 925,000 average interest rates 2.5 % 2.3 % 2.3 % as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2013 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $17 million.risk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in texas, nevada and california. texas: we own 7 acute care hospitals and 22 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 18% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2014, 2013 and 2012. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 17% in 2014, 15% in 2013, and 12% in 2012 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. nevada: we own 6 acute care hospitals and 4 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties. on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 16% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2014, 2013 and 2012. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 11% in 2014, 6% in 2013, and 8% in 2012 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. california: we own 5 acute care hospitals and 6 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 10% in 2014, 9% in 2013, and 10% in 2012 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 8% in 2014, 4% in 2013, and 6% in 2012 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. the significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in texas nevada and california. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the substantial deterioration in general economic conditions and the funding requirements from the federal healthcare reform legislation, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. in addition, the vast majority of the net revenues generated at our behavioral health facilities located in the united kingdom are derived from governmental payors. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by governmental payors in the united states or united kingdom are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 15 table of contents we receive medicaid revenues in excess of $90 million annually from each of texas, washington, d.c., pennsylvania, california, illinois, nevada, virginia and florida, making us particularly sensitive to reductions in medicaid and other state based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. based upon the state budgets for those states for the 2015 fiscal year (which generally began at various times during the second half of 2014), we estimate that, on a blended basis, our aggregate medicaid rates were relatively unchanged from the 2014 fiscal year rates. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. reductions or changes in medicare funding could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. on january 3, 2013, president obama signed into law the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 (the 2012 act ). the 2012 act postponed for two months sequestration cuts mandated under the budget control act of 2011. the postponed sequestration cuts include a 2% annual reduction over ten years in medicare spending to providers. medicaid is exempt from sequestration. in order to offset the costs of the legislation, the 2012 act reduces payments to other providers totaling almost $26 billion over ten years. approximately half of those funds will come from reductions in medicare reimbursement to hospitals. although the bipartisan budget act of 2013 has reduced certain sequestration-related budgetary cuts, spending reductions related to the medicare program remain in place. on december 26, 2013, president obama signed into law h.j. res. 59, the bipartisan budget act of 2013, which includes the pathway for sgr reform act of 2013 ( the act ). in addition, on february 15, 2014, public law 113-082 was enacted. the act and subsequent federal legislation achieves new savings by extending sequestration for mandatory programs including medicare for another three years, through 2024. please see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, sources of revenue-medicare , for additional disclosure. the 2012 act includes a document and coding ( dci ) adjustment and a reduction in medicaid disproportionate share hospital ( dsh ) payments. expected to save $10.5 billion over 10 years, the dci adjustment decreases projected medicare hospital payments for inpatient and overnight care through a downward adjustment in annual base payment increases. these reductions are meant to recoup what medicare authorities consider to be overpayments to hospitals that occurred as a result of the transition to medicare severity diagnosis related groups. the reduction in medicaid dsh payments is expected to save $4.2 billion over 10 years. this provision extends the changes regarding dsh payments established by the legislation and determines future allotments off of the rebased level. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act (the ppaca ). the healthcare and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the reconciliation act ), which contains a number of amendments to the ppaca, was signed into law on march 30, 2010. two primary goals of the ppaca, combined with the reconciliation act (collectively referred to as the legislation ), are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses. although it is expected that as a result of the legislation there may be a reduction in uninsured patients, which should reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the legislation makes a number of 16 table of contents other changes to medicare and medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. it has been projected that the legislation will result in a net reduction in medicare and medicaid payments to hospitals totaling $155 billion over 10 years. the legislation revises reimbursement under the medicare and medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. the legislation provides for decreases in the annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning october 1, 2011 for medicare part b reimbursable items and services and beginning october 1, 2012 for medicare inpatient hospital services. the legislation and subsequent revisions provide for reductions to both medicare dsh and medicaid dsh payments. the medicare dsh reductions began in october, 2013 with no material adverse impact to the reimbursements we receive expected until 2015 while medicaid dsh reimbursements would not be adversely impacted until 2016. the legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals will include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates. a 2012 u.s. supreme court ruling limited the federal government ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional sections of the legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain medicaid coverage requirements. pursuant to that decision, the federal government may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the medicaid expansion program by reducing their existing medicaid funding. therefore, states can choose to accept or not to participate without risking the loss of federal medicaid funding. as a result, many states, including texas, have not expanded their medicaid programs without the threat of loss of federal funding. there have been several attempts in congress to repeal or modify various provisions of the ppaca. we cannot predict whether or not any of these proposed changes to the ppaca will become law and therefore can provide no assurance that changes to the ppaca, as currently implemented, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. in addition, a case currently pending before the supreme court of the united states, king vs. burwell , challenges the federal government ability to subsidize premiums paid by certain eligible individuals that obtain health insurance policies through federally facilitated exchanges. a number of our hospitals operate in states that utilize federally facilitated exchanges. the supreme court of the united states decision in this case could result in an increased number of uninsured patients treated at our hospitals located in these states which would have an adverse effect on our future results of operations. the various provisions in the legislation that directly or indirectly affect medicare and medicaid reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. the impact of the legislation on healthcare providers will be subject to implementing regulations, interpretive guidance and possible future legislation or legal challenges. certain legislation provisions, such as those creating the medicare shared savings program and the independent payment advisory board, create uncertainty in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. thus, we cannot predict the impact of the legislation on our future reimbursement at this time and we can provide no assurance that the legislation will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. the legislation also contained provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. the legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and the false claims act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. while congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the anti-kickback statute to provide that a person is not required to have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the anti-kickback statute in order to be found in violation of such law, the legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the anti-kickback statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil false claims act. the legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil false claims act, although final regulations implementing this statutory 17 table of contents requirement remain pending. the legislation also expands the recovery audit contractor program to medicaid. these amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. these investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. the legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a grandfather clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. the legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. the impact of the legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. because legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the legislation may be subject to further revision. we cannot predict the impact the legislation may have on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity, or whether we will be able to successfully adapt to the changes required by the legislation. we are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the emergency medical treatment and active labor act, or emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient medical condition, within the facility capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital written procedures. our obligations under emtala may increase substantially going forward; cms has sought stakeholder comments concerning the potential applicability of emtala to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively, but has yet to issue further guidance in response to that request. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to inpatients under emtala is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed. if we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors. in recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. cms publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the medicare program. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additionally, the legislation requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results on the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and pricing. this circumstance could harm our business and results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. however, we also have substantial receivables due to us as of december 31, 2014 (a significant portion of which is past due) from 18 table of contents certain state-based funding programs, most particularly illinois and texas as discussed herein. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables, historical collection experience and assessment of probability of future collections. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. the loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. 19 table of contents if we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. the technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. to compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. if our facilities do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. if we fail to continue to meet the meaningful use criteria related to electronic health record systems ( ehr ), our operations could be harmed. pursuant to hitech regulations, hospitals that do not qualify as a meaningful user of ehr by 2015 are subject to a reduced market basket update to the inpatient prospective payment system ( ipps ) standardized amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. we believe that all of our acute care hospitals have met the applicable meaningful use criteria and therefore are not subject to a reduced market basked update to the ipps standardized amount in federal fiscal year 2015. however, under the hitech act, hospitals must continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria in each fiscal year or they will be subject to a market basket update reduction in a subsequent fiscal year. failure of our acute care hospitals to continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria would have an adverse effect on our future net revenues and results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. union organizing activities and certain potential changes in federal labor laws and regulations could increase the likelihood of employee unionization in the future, to the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionized, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; 20 table of contents confidentiality, maintenance, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal false claims act, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, ( hipaa ), the federal anti-kickback statute and the provision of the social security act commonly known as the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, or oig, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. cms published a medicare self-referral disclosure protocol, which is intended to allow providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the stark law. because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the stark law, there can be no assurance that our hospitals will not be found in violation of the stark law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced penalties. federal regulations issued under hipaa contain provisions that require us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient health and related financial information. such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. additionally, recent changes to hipaa regulations may result in greater compliance requirements, including obligations to report breaches of unsecured patient data, as well as create new liabilities for the actions of parties acting as business associates on our behalf. these laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see item 3 legal proceedings ), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation . if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign 21 table of contents laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. we are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other hazardous materials. if we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. in an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we may be subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits. the federal false claims act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. these private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of whistleblower lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent years. because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. please see item 3. legal proceedings for disclosure of current related matters. the failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain facilities, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals. the economies in the non-urban communities in which our hospitals operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers. those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care facilities for their care. the failure of one or more large employer or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. the occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business. 22 table of contents if any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under medicare or medicaid. the construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. all of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the medicare program. the effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. we believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. however, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the medicare or medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected. our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. in addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. 23 table of contents if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility reputation could harm our business. our subsidiaries, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions. our subsidiaries, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see item 3-legal proceedings ). in addition, we are and may become subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown, which may relate to past, present and future facts, events, circumstances and occurrences. should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our legal proceedings or other loss contingencies, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity following the merger and our ability to achieve expected benefits of the merger. in particular, government investigations, as well as qui tam lawsuits, may lead to material fines, penalties, damages payments or other sanctions, including exclusion from government healthcare programs. settlements of lawsuits involving medicare and medicaid issues routinely require both monetary payments and corporate integrity agreements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted certificates of need, or con, laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 24 table of contents our revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control. our revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians clinical decisions and availability, payor programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme low temperatures, hurricanes and tornados, earthquakes, current local economic and demographic changes. in addition, technological developments and pharmaceutical improvements may reduce the demand for healthcare services or the profitability of the services we offer. a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states could materially affect our business and future results of operations. our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. worsening of economic conditions may result in a higher unemployment rate which may increase the number of individuals without health insurance. as a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or an increase in services provided to uninsured patients. these factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results. in addition, as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately $3.29 billion of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. should the revenues and financial results of our acute care and/or behavioral health care facilities be materially, unfavorably impacted due to, among other things, a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states that could negatively impact our patient volumes and reimbursement rates, a continued rise in the unemployment rate and continued increases in the number of uninsured patients treated at our facilities, we may incur future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we are exposed to currency exchange risk with respect to the u.s. dollar in relation to the pound sterling, because a portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in pounds. we monitor changes in our exposure to exchange rate risk. while we may elect to enter into hedging arrangements to protect our business against certain currency fluctuations, these hedging arrangements do not provide comprehensive protection, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. 25 table of contents we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. a cyber security incident could cause a violation of hipaa, breach of member privacy, or other negative impacts. we rely extensively on our information technology ( it ) systems to manage clinical and financial data, communicate with our patients, payors, vendors and other third parties and summarize and analyze operating results. in addition, we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and utilize electronic health records and to become meaningful users of health information technology pursuant to the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. a cyber-attack that bypasses our it security systems causing an it security breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws, loss of proprietary business information, or a material disruption of our it business systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business and result of operations. in addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of public health information, other confidential data or proprietary business information. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. 26 table of contents the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. to fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. if any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business. the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock is subject to potential increases or decreases. at december 31, 2014, 23.3 million shares of class b common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of class a, c and d common stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase class b common stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. class a, c and d common stock are convertible on a share for share basis into class b common stock. to the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of class b common stock, the number of shares of class b common stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the current holders of class b common stock would own a smaller percentage of that class. in addition, from time-to-time our board of directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our class b common stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings per share. 27 table of contents the right to elect the majority of our board of directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of class a and c common stock, the majority of which is owned by alan b. miller, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of class a common stock vote as a class with the holders of class c common stock, and holders of class b common stock vote as a class with holders of class d common stock, with holders of all classes of our common stock entitled to one vote per share. as of march 24, 2014, the shares of class a and class c common stock constituted 7.4% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect five members of the board of directors and constituted 86.7% of our general voting power. as of march 24, 2014, the shares of class b and class d common stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 92.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect two members of the board of directors and constituted 13.3% of our general voting power. as to matters other than the election of directors, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of class a, class b, class c and class d common stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law. each share of class a common stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of class b common stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of class c common stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of class c common stock holds a number of shares of class a common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class c common stock that holder holds); and each share of class d common stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of class d common stock holds a number of shares of class b common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class d common stock that holder holds). in the event a holder of class c or class d common stock holds a number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, less than ten times the number of shares of class c or class d common stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of class c common stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of class d common stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, held by that holder. the board of directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of class a or class b common stock as class c or class d common stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records. since a substantial majority of the class a shares and class c shares are controlled by mr. alan b. miller and members of his family who are also directors and officers of our company, and they can elect a majority of our company directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company. in addition, because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. to manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. we account for our derivative and hedging activities using the financial accounting standard board ( fasb ) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. for derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) within shareholders equity. amounts are reclassified from aoci to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. we use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement. for hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. the fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. we assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. we performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2014 and 2013 and determined the hedges to be highly effective. we also determined that any portion of the hedges deemed to be ineffective was de minimis and therefore there was no material effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or cash flows. the counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. however, at december 31, 2014, each swap agreement entered into by us was in a net liability position which would require us to make the net settlement payments to the counterparties. we do not anticipate nonperformance by our counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. during 2011, we entered into a forward starting interest rate cap on a total notional amount of $450 million from december, 2011 to december, 2012 reducing to $400 million from december, 2012 to december, 2013 whereby we paid a premium of $740,000 in exchange for the counterparty agreeing to pay the difference between 7.00% and three-month libor if the three-month libor rate rises above 7.00% during the term of the cap. the three-month libor never reached 7.00% during the term of the cap, which expired in december, 2013, and therefore no payment was made to us. 88 table of contents we also entered into six forward starting interest rate swaps in 2011 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $425 million and receive three-month libor. three of these swaps with a total notional amount of $225 million became effective in march, 2011 and will mature in may, 2015. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 1.91%. the three remaining interest rate swaps with total notional amounts of $75 million, $25 million and $100 million became effective in december, 2011 and had corresponding fixed rates of 1.32%, 1.96% and 2.50%. the $75 million, $25 million, and $100 million interest rate swaps matured in december, 2012, december, 2013, and december, 2014, respectively. during 2010, we entered into four forward starting interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $600 million and receive three-month libor. each of the four swaps became effective in december, 2011 and will mature in may, 2015. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 2.38%. during the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into two interest rate swaps whereby we paid a fixed rate on a total notional principal amount of $150 million and received three-month libor. each of the two interest rate swaps, which are now expired, had an initial notional principal amount of $75 million. the fixed rate payable on one of the interest rate swaps was 4.87% and it matured in october, 2011. the fixed rate payable on the other interest rate swap, on which the notional principal amount reduced to $50 million in october, 2010, was 4.76% and it matured in october, 2012. we measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. the fair value of our interest rate swaps is based primarily on quotes from banks. we consider those inputs to be level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $6 million at december 31, 2014, all of which is included in other current liabilities. at december 31, 2013, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $24 million, of which $19 million was included in other current liabilities and $5 million was included in other noncurrent liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2014. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 18,146 $ 401,970 $ 1,925 $ 2,132 $ 301,392 $ 315,298 $ 1,040,863 average interest rates 5.5 % 5.5 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 5.0 % 4.9 % variable rate: debt $ 50,173 $ 385,467 $ 88,750 $ 88,750 $ 1,624,531 $ 2,237,671 average interest rates 1.6 % 1.6 % 1.7 % 1.7 % 1.7 % 1.7 % interest rate swaps: notional amount $ 825,000 $ 825,000 average interest rates 2.3 % 2.3 % as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2014 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $14 million. 89 table of contentsrisk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in texas, nevada and california. texas: we own 7 inpatient acute care hospitals and 24 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 17% in 2015 and 18% in both 2014 and 2013 of our consolidated net revenues. on a 11 combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 11% in 2015, 17% in 2014, and 15% in 2013 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. nevada: we own 6 inpatient acute care hospitals and 4 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 15% in 2015, 16% in 2014, and 15% in 2013 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 10% in 2015, 11% in 2014, and 6% in 2013 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. california: we own 5 inpatient acute care hospitals and 8 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 11% in 2015, 10% in 2014, and 9% in 2013 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 11% in 2015, 8% in 2014, and 4% in 2013 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. the significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in texas, nevada and california. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the substantial deterioration in general economic conditions and the funding requirements from the federal healthcare reform legislation, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. in addition, the vast majority of the net revenues generated at our behavioral health facilities located in the united kingdom are derived from governmental payors. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by governmental payors in the united states or united kingdom are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we receive medicaid revenues in excess of $90 million annually from each of texas, washington, d.c., california, nevada, illinois, pennsylvania, virginia, massachusetts and florida, making us particularly sensitive to reductions in medicaid and other state based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. reductions or changes in medicare funding could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. on january 3, 2013, president obama signed into law the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 (the 2012 act ). the 2012 act postponed for two months sequestration cuts mandated under the budget control act of 2011. the postponed sequestration cuts include a 2% annual reduction over ten years in medicare spending to providers. medicaid is exempt from sequestration. in order to offset the costs of the legislation, the 2012 act reduces payments to other providers totaling almost $26 billion over ten years. approximately half of those funds will come from reductions in medicare reimbursement to hospitals. although the bipartisan budget act of 2013 has reduced certain sequestration-related budgetary cuts, spending reductions related to the medicare program remain in place. on december 26, 2013, president obama signed into law h.j. res. 59, the bipartisan budget act of 2013, which includes the pathway for sgr reform act of 2013 ( the act ). in addition, on february 15, 2014, public law 113-082 was enacted. the act and subsequent federal legislation achieves new savings by extending sequestration for mandatory programs including medicare for another three years, through 2024. please see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, sources of revenue-medicare , for additional disclosure. 12 the 2012 act includes a document and coding ( dci ) adjustment and a reduction in medicaid d isproportionate share hospital ( dsh ) payments. expected to save $10.5 billion over 10 years, the dci adjustment decreases projected medicare hospital payments for inpatient and overnight care through a downward adjustment in annual base payment increases . these reductions are meant to recoup what medicare authorities consider to be overpayments to hospitals that occurred as a result of the transition to medicare severity diagnosis related groups. the reduction in medicaid dsh payments is expected to sav e $4.2 billion over 10 years. this provision extends the changes regarding dsh payments established by the legislation and determines future allotments off of the rebased level. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act (the ppaca ). the healthcare and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the reconciliation act ), which contains a number of amendments to the ppaca, was signed into law on march 30, 2010. two primary goals of the ppaca, combined with the reconciliation act (collectively referred to as the legislation ), are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses. although it is expected that as a result of the legislation there may be a reduction in uninsured patients, which should reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the legislation makes a number of other changes to medicare and medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. it has been projected that the legislation will result in a net reduction in medicare and medicaid payments to hospitals totaling $155 billion over 10 years. the legislation revises reimbursement under the medicare and medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. the legislation provides for decreases in the annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning october 1, 2011 for medicare part b reimbursable items and services and beginning october 1, 2012 for medicare inpatient hospital services. the legislation and subsequent revisions provide for reductions to both medicare dsh and medicaid dsh payments. the medicare dsh reductions began in october, 2013 with no material adverse impact to the reimbursements we receive expected until 2015 while medicaid dsh reimbursements would not be adversely impacted until 2016. the legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals will include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates. a 2012 u.s. supreme court ruling limited the federal government's ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional sections of the legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain medicaid coverage requirements. pursuant to that decision, the federal government may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the medicaid expansion program by reducing their existing medicaid funding. therefore, states can choose to accept or not to participate without risking the loss of federal medicaid funding. as a result, many states, including texas, have not expanded their medicaid programs without the threat of loss of federal funding. there have been several attempts in congress to repeal or modify various provisions of the legislation. we cannot predict whether or not any of these proposed changes to the ppaca will become law and therefore can provide no assurance that changes to the legislation, as currently implemented, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. in addition, in king vs. burwell , the supreme court decided in favor of the federal government's ability to subsidize premiums paid by certain eligible individuals that obtain health insurance policies through federally facilitated exchanges. a number of our hospitals operate in states that utilize federally facilitated exchanges. the supreme court's decision in this case ultimately preserved the viability of federally facilitated exchanges. a different decision by the supreme court could have resulted in an increased number of uninsured patients generally, including an increase of uninsured patients treated at our hospitals located in these states. the various provisions in the legislation that directly or indirectly affect medicare and medicaid reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. the impact of the legislation on healthcare providers will be subject to implementing regulations, interpretive guidance and possible future legislation or legal challenges. certain legislation provisions, such as those creating the medicare shared savings program and the independent payment advisory board, create uncertainty in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. thus, we cannot predict the impact of the legislation on our future reimbursement at this time and we can provide no assurance that the legislation will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. the legislation also contained provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. the legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and the false claims act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. while congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the anti-kickback statute to provide that a person is not required to have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the anti-kickback statute in order to be found in violation of such law, the legislation also provides that any 13 claims for items or services that violate the anti-kickback statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil false claims act. the legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil false claims act, although final regulations implementing this statutory requirement remain pending. the legislation also expands the recovery audit contractor program to medicaid. these amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. these investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. the legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a grandfather clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. the legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. the impact of the legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. because legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the legislation may be subject to further revision. we cannot predict the impact the legislation may have on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity, or whether we will be able to successfully adapt to the changes required by the legislation. we are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the emergency medical treatment and active labor act, or emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient's medical condition, within the facility's capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital's written procedures. our obligations under emtala may increase substantially going forward; cms has sought stakeholder comments concerning the potential applicability of emtala to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively, but has yet to issue further guidance in response to that request. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to inpatients under emtala is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed. if we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors. in recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. cms publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the medicare program. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additionally, the legislation requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results on the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and pricing. this circumstance could harm our business and results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient's responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. however, we also have substantial receivables due to us as of december 31, 2015 (a significant portion of which is past due) from certain state-based funding programs, most particularly illinois and texas as discussed herein. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables, historical collection experience and assessment of probability of future collections. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed. 14 our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. the loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. if we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. the technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. to compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. if our facilities do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. if we fail to continue to meet the meaningful use criteria related to electronic health record systems ( ehr ), our operations could be harmed. pursuant to hitech regulations, hospitals that do not qualify as a meaningful user of ehr by 2015 are subject to a reduced market basket update to the inpatient prospective payment system ( ipps ) standardized amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. we believe that all of our acute care hospitals have met the applicable meaningful use criteria and therefore are not subject to a reduced market basked update to the ipps standardized amount in federal fiscal year 2015. however, under the hitech act, hospitals must continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria in each fiscal year or they will be subject to a market basket update reduction in a subsequent fiscal year. failure of our acute care hospitals to continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria would have an adverse effect on our future net revenues and results of operations. 15 our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of opera tions. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. union organizing activities and certain potential changes in federal labor laws and regulations could increase the likelihood of employee unionization in the future, to the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionized, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal false claims act, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, ( hipaa ), the federal anti-kickback statute and the provision of the social security act commonly known as the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, or oig, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. cms published a medicare self-referral disclosure protocol, which is intended to allow providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the stark law. because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the stark law, there can be no assurance that our hospitals will not be found in violation of the stark law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced penalties. federal regulations issued under hipaa contain provisions that require us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient's health and related financial information. such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. additionally, recent changes to hipaa regulations may result in greater compliance requirements, including obligations to report breaches of unsecured patient data, as well as create new liabilities for the actions of parties acting as business associates on our behalf. these laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, 16 personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see item 3 legal proceedings ), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material ad verse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what f orm such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation . if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. we are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other hazardous materials. if we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. in an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we may be subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits. the federal false claims act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. these private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of whistleblower lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent years. because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. please see item 3. legal proceedings for disclosure of current related matters. the failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain facilities, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals. the economies in the non-urban communities in which our hospitals operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers. those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care facilities for their care. the failure of one or more large employer or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. the occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business. 17 if any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under medicare or medicaid. the construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. all of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the medicare program. the effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. we believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. however, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the medicare or medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected. our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital's results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. in addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. the trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. we believe that value-based purchasing initiatives of both governmental and private payers tying financial incentives to quality and efficiency of care will increasingly affect the results of operations of our hospitals and other healthcare facilities and may negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet expected quality standards. the affordable care act contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing in federal healthcare programs. medicare now requires providers to report certain quality measures in order to receive full reimbursement increases for inpatient and outpatient procedures that were previously awarded automatically. in addition, hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards will receive increased reimbursement payments, and hospitals that have excess readmissions for specified conditions will receive reduced reimbursement. furthermore, medicare no longer pays hospitals additional amounts for the treatment of certain hospital-acquired conditions unless the conditions were present at admission. beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, hospitals that rank in the worst 25% of all hospitals nationally for hospital acquired conditions in the previous year will receive reduced medicare reimbursements. the aca also 18 prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for treating certain provider-preventable conditions. there is a trend among private payers toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services, as well. many large commercial payers require hospitals to report quality data, and several of these payers will not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. we are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet quality standards established by both governmental and private payers. if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility's reputation could harm our business. our subsidiaries, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions. our subsidiaries, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see item 3-legal proceedings ). in addition, we are and may become subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown, which may relate to past, present and future facts, events, circumstances and occurrences. should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our legal proceedings or other loss contingencies, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity following the merger and our ability to achieve expected benefits of the merger. in particular, government investigations, as well as qui tam lawsuits, may lead to material fines, penalties, damages payments or other sanctions, including exclusion from government healthcare programs. settlements of lawsuits involving medicare and medicaid issues routinely require both monetary payments and corporate integrity agreements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted certificates of need, or con, laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility's license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 19 our revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control. our revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians' clinical decisions and availability, payor programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme low temperatures, hurricanes and tornados, earthquakes, current local economic and demographic changes. in addition, technological developments and pharmaceutical improvements may reduce the demand for healthcare services or the profitability of the services we offer. a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of a contagious disease in the markets in which we operate or that otherwise impacts our facilities could adversely impact our business. if a pandemic or other public health crisis were to affect our markets, our business could be adversely affected. such a crisis could diminish the public trust in healthcare facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose, or that are treating (or have treated) patients affected by contagious diseases. if any of our facilities were involved in treating patients for such a contagious disease, other patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care at our facilities. further, a pandemic might adversely impact our business by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our facilities. although we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, the potential impact of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of a contagious disease with respect to our markets or our facilities is difficult to predict and could adversely impact our business. a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states could materially affect our business and future results of operations. our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. worsening of economic conditions may result in a higher unemployment rate which may increase the number of individuals without health insurance. as a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or an increase in services provided to uninsured patients. these factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results. in addition, as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately $3.60 billion of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. should the revenues and financial results of our acute care and/or behavioral health care facilities be materially, unfavorably impacted due to, among other things, a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states that could negatively impact our patient volumes and reimbursement rates, a continued rise in the unemployment rate and continued increases in the number of uninsured patients treated at our facilities, we may incur future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we are exposed to currency exchange risk with respect to the u.s. dollar in relation to the pound sterling, because a portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in pounds. we monitor changes in our exposure to exchange rate risk. while we may elect to enter into hedging arrangements to protect our business against certain currency fluctuations, these hedging arrangements do not provide comprehensive protection, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. 20 we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. a cyber security incident could cause a violation of hipaa, breach of member privacy, or other negative impacts. we rely extensively on our information technology ( it ) systems to manage clinical and financial data, communicate with our patients, payors, vendors and other third parties and summarize and analyze operating results. in addition, we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and utilize electronic health records and to become meaningful users of health information technology pursuant to the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. a cyber-attack that bypasses our it security systems causing an it security breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws, loss of proprietary business information, or a material disruption of our it business systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business and result of operations. in addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of public health information, other confidential data or proprietary business information. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. to fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. if any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. 21 in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business. the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock is subject to potential increases or decreases. at december 31, 2015, 24.1 million shares of class b common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of class a, c and d common stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase class b common stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. class a, c and d common stock are convertible on a share for share basis into class b common stock. to the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of class b common stock, the number of shares of class b common stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the current holders of class b common stock would own a smaller percentage of that class. in addition, from time-to-time our board of directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our class b common stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings per share. the right to elect the majority of our board of directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of class a and c common stock, the majority of which is owned by alan b. miller, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of class a common stock vote as a class with the holders of class c common stock, and holders of class b common stock vote as a class with holders of class d common stock, with holders of all classes of our common stock entitled to one vote per share. as of march 26, 2015, the shares of class a and class c common stock constituted 7.3% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect five members of the board of directors and constituted 86.1% of our general voting power as of that date. as of march 26, 2015, the shares of class b and class d common stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 92.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect two members of the board of directors and constituted 13.9% of our general voting power as of that date. as to matters other than the election of directors, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of class a, class b, class c and class d common stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law. each share of class a common stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of class b common stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of class c common stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of class c common stock holds a number of shares of class a common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class c common stock that holder holds); and each share of class d common stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of class d common stock holds a number of shares of class b common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class d common stock that holder holds). in the event a holder of class c or class d common stock holds a number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, less than ten times the number of shares of class c or class d common stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of class c common stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of class d common stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, held by that holder. the board of directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds 22 ten times as many shares of class a or class b common stock as class c or class d common stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records. since a substantial majority of the class a shares and class c shares are controlled by mr. alan b. miller and members of his family, one of whom (marc d. miller) is also a director and officer of our company, and they can elect a majority of our company's directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company. in addition, because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. to manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. we account for our derivative and hedging activities using the financial accounting standard board's ( fasb ) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. for derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) within shareholders' equity. amounts are reclassified from aoci to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. we use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement. for hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge's inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. the fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. we assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. we performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2015 and 2014 and determined the hedges to be highly effective. we also determined that any portion of the hedges deemed to be ineffective was de minimis and therefore there was no material effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or cash flows. the counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. we do not anticipate nonperformance by our counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. seven interest rate swaps on a total notional amount of $825 million matured in may, 2015. four of these swaps, with a total notional amount of $600 million, became effective in december, 2011 and provided that we receive three-month libor while the average fixed rate payable was 2.38%. the remaining three swaps, with a total notional amount of $225 million, became effective in march, 2011 and provided that we receive three-month libor while the average fixed rate payable was 1.91%. during 2015, we entered into nine forward starting interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $1.0 billion and receive one-month libor. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps, which are scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019, is 1.31%. these interest rates swaps consist of: four forward starting interest rate swaps, entered into during the second quarter of 2015, whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $500 million and receive one-month libor. each of the four swaps became effective on july 15, 2015 and are scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 1.40%; four forward starting interest rate swaps, entered into during the third quarter of 2015, whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $400 million and receive one-month libor. one swap on a notional amount of $100 million became effective on july 15, 2015, two swaps on a total notional amount of $200 million became effective on september 15, 2015 and another swap on a notional amount of $100 million became effective on 73 december 15, 2015. all of these swaps are scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019. t he average fixed rate payab le on these four swaps is 1.23%, and; one interest rate swap, entered into during the fourth quarter of 2015, whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $100 million and receive one-month libor. the swap became effective on december 15, 2015 and is scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019. the fixed rate payable on this swap is 1.21%. we measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. the fair value of our interest rate swaps is based on quotes from our counterparties. we consider those inputs to be level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. at december 31, 2015, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a net liability of $1 million comprised of a $5 million asset which is included in other assets offset by a $6 million liability which is included in other current liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. at december 31, 2014, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $6 million, all of which is included in other current liabilities. the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2015. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 2,354 $ 2,505 $ 2,764 $ 301,988 $ 1,650 $ 315,920 $ 627,181 average interest rates 4.40 % 4.40 % 4.40 % 4.40 % 5.00 % 5.00 % 4.60 % variable rate: debt $ 60,368 $ 88,749 $ 488,750 $ 2,184,977 $ 2,822,844 average interest rates 1.60 % 1.80 % 1.70 % 1.80 % 1.80 % interest rate swaps: notional amount $ 1,000,000 $ 1,000,000 average interest rates 1.31 % 1.31 % as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2015 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $18 million.risk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in texas, nevada and california. texas: we own 7 inpatient acute care hospitals and 24 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 16% in 2016, 17% in 2015 and 18% in 2014 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 7% in 2016, 11% in 2015 and 17% in 2014, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. nevada: we own 7 inpatient acute care hospitals and 4 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 16% in 2016, 15% in 2015 and 16% in 2014, of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 13% in 2016, 10% in 2015 and 11% in 2014, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. california: we own 5 inpatient acute care hospitals and 8 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 11% in 2016, 11% in 2015 and 10% in 2014, of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 15% in 2016, 11% in 2015 and 8% in 2014, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. the significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in texas, nevada and california. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, the substantial deterioration in general economic conditions and the funding requirements from the federal healthcare reform legislation, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. in addition, the vast majority of the net revenues generated at our behavioral health facilities located in the united kingdom are derived from governmental payors. if the 12 rates paid or the scope of services covered by governmental payors in the united states or united kingdom are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we receive medicaid revenues in excess of $100 million annually from each of texas, california, washington, d.c., nevada, pennsylvania, illinois, virginia and massachusetts, making us particularly sensitive to reductions in medicaid and other state based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. reductions or changes in medicare funding could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. on january 3, 2013, president obama signed into law the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 (the 2012 act ). the 2012 act postponed for two months sequestration cuts mandated under the budget control act of 2011. the postponed sequestration cuts include a 2% annual reduction over ten years in medicare spending to providers. medicaid is exempt from sequestration. in order to offset the costs of the legislation, the 2012 act reduces payments to other providers totaling almost $26 billion over ten years. approximately half of those funds will come from reductions in medicare reimbursement to hospitals. although the bipartisan budget act of 2013 has reduced certain sequestration-related budgetary cuts, spending reductions related to the medicare program remain in place. on december 26, 2013, president obama signed into law h.j. res. 59, the bipartisan budget act of 2013, which includes the pathway for sgr reform act of 2013 ( the act ). in addition, on february 15, 2014, public law 113-082 was enacted. the act and subsequent federal legislation achieves new savings by extending sequestration for mandatory programs including medicare for another three years, through 2024. please see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, sources of revenue-medicare , for additional disclosure. the 2012 act includes a document and coding ( dci ) adjustment and a reduction in medicaid disproportionate share hospital ( dsh ) payments. expected to save $10.5 billion over 10 years, the dci adjustment decreases projected medicare hospital payments for inpatient and overnight care through a downward adjustment in annual base payment increases. these reductions are meant to recoup what medicare authorities consider to be overpayments to hospitals that occurred as a result of the transition to medicare severity diagnosis related groups. the reduction in medicaid dsh payments is expected to save $4.2 billion over 10 years. this provision extends the changes regarding dsh payments established by the legislation and determines future allotments off of the rebased level. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act (the ppaca ). the healthcare and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the reconciliation act ), which contains a number of amendments to the ppaca, was signed into law on march 30, 2010. two primary goals of the ppaca, combined with the reconciliation act (collectively referred to as the legislation ), are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses. although it is expected that as a result of the legislation there may be a reduction in uninsured patients, which should reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the legislation makes a number of other changes to medicare and medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. it has been projected that the legislation will result in a net reduction in medicare and medicaid payments to hospitals totaling $155 billion over 10 years. the legislation revises reimbursement under the medicare and medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. the legislation provides for decreases in the annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning october 1, 2011 for medicare part b reimbursable items and services and beginning october 1, 2012 for medicare inpatient hospital services. the legislation and subsequent revisions provide for reductions to both medicare dsh and medicaid dsh payments. the medicare dsh reductions began in october, 2013 while the medicaid dsh reductions are scheduled to begin in 2018. the legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals will include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates. 13 a 2012 u.s. supreme court ruling limited the federal government's ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional sections of the legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain medicaid coverage requirements. pursuant to that decision, the federal government may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the medicaid expansion program by reducing their existing medicaid funding. therefore, states can choose to accept or not to participate without risking the loss of federal medicaid funding. as a result, many states, including texas, have not expanded their medicaid programs without the threat of loss of federal funding. in addition, in king vs. burwell , the supreme court decided in favor of the federal government's ability to subsidize premiums paid by certain eligible individuals that obtain health insurance policies through federally facilitated exchanges. a number of our hospitals operate in states that utilize federally facilitated exchanges. the supreme court's decision in this case ultimately preserved the viability of federally facilitated exchanges. a different decision by the supreme court could have resulted in an increased number of uninsured patients generally, including an increase of uninsured patients treated at our hospitals located in these states. the various provisions in the legislation that directly or indirectly affect medicare and medicaid reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. the impact of the legislation on healthcare providers will be subject to implementing regulations, interpretive guidance and possible future legislation or legal challenges. certain legislation provisions, such as those creating the medicare shared savings program and the independent payment advisory board, create uncertainty in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. thus, we cannot predict the impact of the legislation on our future reimbursement at this time and we can provide no assurance that the legislation will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. the legislation also contained provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. the legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and the false claims act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. while congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the anti-kickback statute to provide that a person is not required to have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the anti-kickback statute in order to be found in violation of such law, the legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the anti-kickback statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil false claims act. the legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil false claims act, although final regulations implementing this statutory requirement remain pending. the legislation also expands the recovery audit contractor program to medicaid. these amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. these investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. the legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a grandfather clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. the legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. as discussed below, should the legislation be repealed in its entirety, this aspect of the legislation would also be repealed restoring physician ownership of hospitals and expansion right to its position and practice as it existed prior to the legislation. the impact of the legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. because legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the legislation may be subject to further revision. initiatives to repeal the legislation, in whole or in part, to delay elements of implementation or funding, and to offer amendments or supplements to modify its provisions have been persistent and may increase as a result of the 2016 election. the ultimate outcomes of legislative attempts to repeal or amend the legislation and legal challenges to the legislation are unknown. results of recent congressional elections and the change of presidential administrations beginning in 2017 could create a political environment in which substantial portions of the legislation are repealed or revised. specifically, president donald trump's 100 day action plan called for full repeal of the legislation and its replacement with health savings accounts, cross-states sales of health insurance, and modifications to state-managed medicaid programs. nevertheless, prospects for rapid enactment of radical change in the health care regulatory landscape are not clear, and president donald trump has already indicated that popular provisions of the legislation should be preserved. it remains unclear what portions of the legislation may remain, or whether any replacement or alternative programs may be created by any future legislation. any such future repeal or replacement may have significant impact on the reimbursement for healthcare services generally, and may create reimbursement for services competing with the services offered by our hospitals. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the adoption of any future federal or state healthcare reform legislation will not have a negative financial impact on our hospitals, including their ability to compete with alternative healthcare services funded by such potential legislation, or for our hospitals to receive payment for services. 14 we are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the emergency medical treatment and active labor act, or emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient's medical condition, within the facility's capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital's written procedures. our obligations under emtala may increase substantially going forward; cms has sought stakeholder comments concerning the potential applicability of emtala to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively, but has yet to issue further guidance in response to that request. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to inpatients under emtala is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed. if we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors. in recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. cms publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the medicare program. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additionally, the legislation requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results on the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and pricing. this circumstance could harm our business and results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient's responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. however, we also have substantial receivables due to us from certain state-based funding programs. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables, historical collection experience and assessment of probability of future collections. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom where the national health service (the nhs ) is the principal provider of healthcare services in the united kingdom. in addition to the nhs, we face competition in the united kingdom from independent sector providers and other publicly funded entities for patients. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. 15 our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. the loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. if we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. the technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. to compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. if our facilities do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. if we fail to continue to meet the meaningful use criteria related to electronic health record systems ( ehr ), our operations could be harmed. pursuant to hitech regulations, hospitals that did not qualify as a meaningful user of ehr by 2015 were subject to a reduced market basket update to the inpatient prospective payment system ( ipps ) standardized amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. we believe that all of our acute care hospitals have met the applicable meaningful use criteria and therefore are not subject to a reduced market basked update to the ipps standardized amount. however, under the hitech act, hospitals must continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria in each fiscal year or they will be subject to a market basket update reduction in a subsequent fiscal year. failure of our acute care hospitals to continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria would have an adverse effect on our future net revenues and results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. 16 increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. union organizing activities and certain potential changes in federal labor laws and regulations could increase the likelihood of employee unionization in the future, to the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionized, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal false claims act, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, ( hipaa ), the federal anti-kickback statute and the provision of the social security act commonly known as the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, or oig, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. cms published a medicare self-referral disclosure protocol, which is intended to allow providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the stark law. because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the stark law, there can be no assurance that our hospitals will not be found in violation of the stark law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced penalties. federal regulations issued under hipaa contain provisions that require us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient's health and related financial information. such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. additionally, recent changes to hipaa regulations may result in greater compliance requirements, including obligations to report breaches of unsecured patient data, as well as create new liabilities for the actions of parties acting as business associates on our behalf. these laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see item 3 legal proceedings ), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation . if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate 17 internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. our operations in the united kingdom are also subject to a high level of regulation relating to o registration and licensing requirements employee regulation, clinical standards, environmental rules as well as other areas. we are also subject to a highly regulated business environment, and failure to comply with the various laws and regulations, applicable to us could lead to substantial penalties, and other adverse effects on our business. we are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other hazardous materials. if we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. in an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we may be subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits. the federal false claims act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. these private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of whistleblower lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent years. because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. please see item 3. legal proceedings for disclosure of current related matters. the failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain facilities, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals. the economies in the non-urban communities in which our hospitals operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers. those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care facilities for their care. the failure of one or more large employer or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. the occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business. if any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under medicare or medicaid. the construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. all of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the medicare program. the effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. we believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with 18 applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. however, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the medicare or medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected. our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital's results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. in addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. the trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. we believe that value-based purchasing initiatives of both governmental and private payers tying financial incentives to quality and efficiency of care will increasingly affect the results of operations of our hospitals and other healthcare facilities and may negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet expected quality standards. the affordable care act contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing in federal healthcare programs. medicare now requires providers to report certain quality measures in order to receive full reimbursement increases for inpatient and outpatient procedures that were previously awarded automatically. in addition, hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards will receive increased reimbursement payments, and hospitals that have excess readmissions for specified conditions will receive reduced reimbursement. furthermore, medicare no longer pays hospitals additional amounts for the treatment of certain hospital-acquired conditions unless the conditions were present at admission. beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, hospitals that rank in the worst 25% of all hospitals nationally for hospital acquired conditions in the previous year were subject to reduced medicare reimbursements. the aca also prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for treating certain provider-preventable conditions. there is a trend among private payers toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services, as well. many large commercial payers require hospitals to report quality data, and several of these payers will not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. we are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet quality standards established by both governmental and private payers. 19 if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility's reputation could harm our business. we are subject to pending legal actions, purported stockholder class actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions. we, our subsidiaries, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see item 3-legal proceedings ). defending ourselves against the allegations in the lawsuits and governmental investigations, or similar matters and any related publicity, could potentially entail significant costs and could require significant attention from our management. we are unable to predict the outcome of these matters or to reasonably estimate the amount or range of any such loss; however, these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. we are and may become subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown, which may relate to past, present and future facts, events, circumstances and occurrences. should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our legal proceedings or other loss contingencies, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. in particular, government investigations, as well as qui tam lawsuits, may lead to material fines, penalties, damages payments or other sanctions, including exclusion from government healthcare programs. settlements of lawsuits involving medicare and medicaid issues routinely require both monetary payments and corporate integrity agreements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted certificates of need, or con, laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility's license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control. our revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians' clinical decisions and availability, payor programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme low temperatures, hurricanes and tornados, earthquakes, current local economic and demographic changes. in addition, technological developments and pharmaceutical improvements may reduce the demand for healthcare services or the profitability of the services we offer. 20 a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of a contagious disease in the markets in which we operate or that otherwise impacts our facilities could adversely impact our business. if a pandemic or other public health crisis were to affect our markets, our business could be adversely affected. such a crisis could diminish the public trust in healthcare facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose, or that are treating (or have treated) patients affected by contagious diseases. if any of our facilities were involved in treating patients for such a contagious disease, other patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care at our facilities. further, a pandemic might adversely impact our business by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our facilities. although we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, the potential impact of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of a contagious disease with respect to our markets or our facilities is difficult to predict and could adversely impact our business. a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states could materially affect our business and future results of operations. our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. worsening of economic conditions may result in a higher unemployment rate which may increase the number of individuals without health insurance. as a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or an increase in services provided to uninsured patients. these factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results. in addition, as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately $3.8 billion of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. should the revenues and financial results of our acute care and/or behavioral health care facilities be materially, unfavorably impacted due to, among other things, a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states that could negatively impact our patient volumes and reimbursement rates, a continued rise in the unemployment rate and continued increases in the number of uninsured patients treated at our facilities, we may incur future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. legal uncertainty or a worsening of the economic conditions in the united kingdom could materially affect our business and future results of operations. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom affirmatively voted in a non-binding referendum in favor of the exit of the united kingdom from the european union (the brexit ) and it has been approved by vote of the british legislature. negotiations have commenced to determine the future terms of the united kingdom's relationship with the european union, including the terms of trade between the united kingdom and the european union. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the united kingdom makes to retain access to european union markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. brexit could lead to legal and regulatory uncertainty as the united kingdom determines which european union laws to replace or replicate. the announcement of brexit also created (and the actual exit of the united kingdom from the european union may create future) economic uncertainty, both in the united kingdom and globally. the actual exit of the united kingdom from the european union could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding our business. any of these effects of brexit (and the announcement thereof), and others we cannot anticipate, could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. 21 our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we are exposed to currency exchange risk with respect to the u.s. dollar in relation to the pound sterling, because a portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in pounds. we monitor changes in our exposure to exchange rate risk. while we may elect to enter into hedging arrangements to protect our business against certain currency fluctuations, these hedging arrangements do not provide comprehensive protection, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. a cyber security incident could cause a violation of hipaa, breach of member privacy, or other negative impacts. we rely extensively on our information technology ( it ) systems to manage clinical and financial data, communicate with our patients, payors, vendors and other third parties and summarize and analyze operating results. in addition, we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and utilize electronic health records and to become meaningful users of health information technology pursuant to the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. a cyber-attack that bypasses our it security systems causing an it security breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws, loss of proprietary business information, or a material disruption of our it business systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business and result of operations. in addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of public health information, other confidential data or proprietary business information. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. 22 to fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. if any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business. the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock is subject to potential increases or decreases. at december 31, 2016, 21.8 million shares of class b common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of class a, c and d common stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase class b common stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. class a, c and d common stock are convertible on a share for share basis into class b common stock. to the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of class b common stock, the number of shares of class b common stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the current holders of class b common stock would own a smaller percentage of that class. in addition, from time-to-time our board of directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our class b common stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings per share. the right to elect the majority of our board of directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of class a and c common stock, the majority of which is owned by alan b. miller, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of class a common stock vote as a class with the holders of class c common stock, and holders of class b common stock vote as a class with holders of class d common stock, with holders of all classes of our common stock entitled to one vote per share. as of march 22, 2016, the shares of class a and class c common stock constituted 7.5% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect five members of the board of directors and constituted 86.4% of our general voting power as of that date. as of march 22, 2016, the shares of class b and class d common stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 92.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect two members of the board of directors and constituted 13.6% of our general voting power as of that date. as to matters other than the election of directors, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of class a, class b, class c and class d common stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law. each share of class a common stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of class b common stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of class c common stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of class c common stock holds a number of shares of class a common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class c common stock that holder holds); and each share of class d common stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of class d common stock holds a number of shares of class b common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class d common stock that holder holds). 23 in the event a holder of class c or class d common stock holds a number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, less than ten times the number of shares of class c or class d common stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of class c common stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of class d common stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, held by that holder. the board of directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of class a or class b common stock as class c or class d common stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records. since a substantial majority of the class a shares and class c shares are controlled by mr. alan b. miller and members of his family, one of whom (marc d. miller) is also a director and officer of our company, and they can elect a majority of our company's directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company. in addition, because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. to manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. we account for our derivative and hedging activities using the financial accounting standard board's ( fasb ) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. for derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) within shareholders' equity. amounts are reclassified from aoci to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. we use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement. for hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge's inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. the fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. we assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. we performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2016 and 2015 and determined the hedges to be highly effective. we also determined that any portion of the hedges deemed to be ineffective was de minimis and therefore there was no material effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or cash flows. the counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. we do not anticipate nonperformance by our counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 75 seven interest rate swaps on a total notional amount of $825 million matured in may, 2015. four of these swaps, with a total notional amount of $600 million, became effective in december, 2011 and provided that we receive three-month libor while the average fixed rate payable was 2.38%. the remaining three swaps, with a total notional amount of $225 million, became effective in march, 2011 and provided that we receive three-month libor while the average fixed rate payable was 1.91%. during 2015, we entered into nine forward starting interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $1.0 billion and receive one-month libor. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps, which are scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019, is 1.31%. these interest rates swaps consist of: four forward starting interest rate swaps, entered into during the second quarter of 2015, whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $500 million and receive one-month libor. each of the four swaps became effective on july 15, 2015 and are scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 1.40%; four forward starting interest rate swaps, entered into during the third quarter of 2015, whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $400 million and receive one-month libor. one swap on a notional amount of $100 million became effective on july 15, 2015, two swaps on a total notional amount of $200 million became effective on september 15, 2015 and another swap on a notional amount of $100 million became effective on december 15, 2015. all of these swaps are scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019. the average fixed rate payable on these four swaps is 1.23%, and; one interest rate swap, entered into during the fourth quarter of 2015, whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $100 million and receive one-month libor. the swap became effective on december 15, 2015 and is scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019. the fixed rate payable on this swap is 1.21%. we measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. the fair value of our interest rate swaps is based on quotes from our counterparties. we consider those inputs to be level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. at december 31, 2016, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was de minimis on a net basis comprised of a $4 million asset which is included in other assets offset by a $4 million liability which in included in other current liabilities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2015, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a net liability of $1 million comprised of a $5 million asset which is included in other assets offset by a $6 million liability which is included in other current liabilities. the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2016. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 2,445 $ 2,646 $ 298,991 $ 1,650 $ 1,696 $ 1,104,961 $ 1,412,389 average interest rates 4.7 % 4.7 % 4.7 % 5.0 % 5.0 % 5.1 % 4.9 % variable rate: debt $ 103,450 $ 487,082 $ 2,133,204 $ 2,723,736 average interest rates 2.2 % 2.2 % 2.2 % 2.2 % interest rate swaps: notional amount $ 1,000,000 $ 1,000,000 average interest rates 1.3 % 1.3 % as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2016 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $17 million.risk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in texas, nevada and california. texas: we own 7 inpatient acute care hospitals and 22 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 15% in 2017, 16% in 2016 and 17% in 2015 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 11% in 2017, 7% in 2016 and 11% in 2015, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. nevada: we own 8 inpatient acute care hospitals and 4 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 17% in 2017, 16% in 2016 and 15% in 2015, of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 20% in 2017, 13% in 2016 and 10% in 2015, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. california: we own 5 inpatient acute care hospitals and 8 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 11% in 2017, 11% in 2016 and 11% in 2015, of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 13% in 2017, 15% in 2016 and 11% in 2015, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. the significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in texas, nevada and california. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payors. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party payors, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, deterioration in general economic conditions and the funding requirements from the federal healthcare reform legislation, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. in addition, the vast majority of the net revenues generated at our behavioral health facilities located in the united kingdom are derived from governmental payors. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by governmental payors in the united states or united kingdom are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 12 we receive medicaid revenues in excess of $100 million annually from each of texas, california, nevada, washington, d.c., pennsylvania and illinois, making us particularly sensitive to reductions in medicaid and other state based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payors, including managed care providers, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payors, including managed care providers, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. reductions or changes in medicare and medicaid funding could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. on january 3, 2013, president obama signed into law the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 (the 2012 act ). the 2012 act postponed for two months sequestration cuts mandated under the budget control act of 2011. the postponed sequestration cuts include a 2% annual reduction over ten years in medicare spending to providers. medicaid is exempt from sequestration. in order to offset the costs of the legislation, the 2012 act reduces payments to other providers totaling almost $26 billion over ten years. approximately half of those funds will come from reductions in medicare reimbursement to hospitals. although the bipartisan budget act of 2013 has reduced certain sequestration-related budgetary cuts, spending reductions related to the medicare program remain in place. on december 26, 2013, president obama signed into law h.j. res. 59, the bipartisan budget act of 2013, which includes the pathway for sgr reform act of 2013 ( the act ). in addition, on february 15, 2014, public law 113-082 was enacted. the 2012 act and subsequent federal legislation achieves new savings by extending sequestration for mandatory programs including medicare through 2027. please see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, sources of revenue-medicare , for additional disclosure. the 2012 act includes a document and coding ( dci ) adjustment and a reduction in medicaid disproportionate share hospital ( dsh ) payments. expected to save $10.5 billion over 10 years, the dci adjustment decreases projected medicare hospital payments for inpatient and overnight care through a downward adjustment in annual base payment increases. these reductions are meant to recoup what medicare authorities consider to be overpayments to hospitals that occurred as a result of the transition to medicare severity diagnosis related groups. the reduction in medicaid dsh payments was expected to save $4.2 billion over 10 years. this provision extends the changes regarding dsh payments established by the legislation and determines future allotments off of the rebased level. on february 9, 2018, president trump signed into law h.r. 1892, the bipartisan budget act of 2018, which eliminated the dsh cuts scheduled for 2018 and 2019 but added additional dsh reductions of $4 billion in 2020 and $8 billion a year between 2021 and 2025. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act (the ppaca ). the healthcare and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the reconciliation act ), which contains a number of amendments to the ppaca, was signed into law on march 30, 2010. two primary goals of the ppaca, combined with the reconciliation act (collectively referred to as the legislation ), are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses. although it was expected that as a result of the legislation there would be a reduction in uninsured patients, which would reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the legislation makes a number of other changes to medicare and medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. it has been projected that the legislation will result in a net reduction in medicare and medicaid payments to hospitals totaling $155 billion over 10 years. the legislation revises reimbursement under the medicare and medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. the legislation provides for decreases in the annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning october 1, 2011 for medicare part b reimbursable items and services and beginning october 1, 2012 for medicare inpatient hospital services. the legislation and subsequent revisions provide for reductions to both medicare dsh and medicaid dsh payments. the medicare dsh reductions began in october, 2013 while the medicaid dsh reductions are scheduled to begin in 2020. the legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals will include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates. 13 a 2012 u.s. supreme court ruling limited the federal government's ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional sections of the legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain medicaid coverage requirements. pursuant to that decision, the federal government may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the medicaid expansion program by reducing their existing medicaid funding. therefore, states can choose to accept or not to participate without risking the loss of federal medicaid funding. as a result, many states, including texas, have not expanded their medicaid programs without the threat of loss of federal funding. cms has granted, and is expected to grant additional, section 1115 demonstration waivers providing for work and community engagement requirements for certain medicaid eligible individuals. it is anticipated this will lead to reductions in coverage, and likely increases in uncompensated care, in states where these demonstration waivers are granted. the various provisions in the legislation that directly or indirectly affect medicare and medicaid reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. the impact of the legislation on healthcare providers will be subject to implementing regulations, interpretive guidance and possible future legislation or legal challenges. certain legislation provisions, such as that creating the medicare shared savings program creates uncertainty in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. thus, we cannot predict the impact of the legislation on our future reimbursement at this time and we can provide no assurance that the legislation will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. the legislation also contained provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. the legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and the false claims act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. while congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the anti-kickback statute to provide that a person is not required to have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the anti-kickback statute in order to be found in violation of such law, the legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the anti-kickback statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil false claims act. the legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil false claims act, although final regulations implementing this statutory requirement remain pending. the legislation also expands the recovery audit contractor program to medicaid. these amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. these investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. the legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a grandfather clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. the legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. as discussed below, should the legislation be repealed in its entirety, this aspect of the legislation would also be repealed restoring physician ownership of hospitals and expansion right to its position and practice as it existed prior to the legislation. the impact of the legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. because legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the legislation may be subject to further revision. initiatives to repeal the legislation, in whole or in part, to delay elements of implementation or funding, and to offer amendments or supplements to modify its provisions have been persistent. the ultimate outcomes of legislative attempts to repeal or amend the legislation and legal challenges to the legislation are unknown. legislation has already been enacted that has repealed the individual mandate to obtain health insurance penalty that was part of the original legislation. in addition, congress is considering legislation that would, in material part: (i) eliminate the large employer mandate to obtain or provide health insurance coverage, respectively; (ii) permit insurers to impose a surcharge up to 30 percent on individuals who go uninsured for more than two months and then purchase coverage; (iii) provide tax credits towards the purchase of health insurance, with a phase-out of tax credits accordingly to income level; (iv) expand health savings accounts; (v) impose a per capita cap on federal funding of state medicaid programs, or, if elected by a state, transition federal funding to block grants, and; (vi) permit states to seek a waiver of certain federal requirements that would allow such state to define essential health benefits differently from federal standards and that would allow certain commercial health plans to take health status, including pre-existing conditions, into account in setting premiums. in addition to legislative changes, the legislation can be significantly impacted by executive branch actions. in relevant part, president trump has already taken executive actions: (i) requiring all federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the legislation to exercise all authority and discretion available to them to waiver, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay parts of the legislation that place unwarranted economic and regulatory burdens on states, individuals or health care providers; (ii) the issuance of a proposed rule by the department of labor to enable the formation of health plans that would be exempt from certain legislation essential health benefits requirements, and; (iii) eliminating cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers that would otherwise offset deductibles and other out-of-pocket expenses for health plan enrollees at or below 250 percent of the federal poverty level. the uncertainty resulting from these executive branch policies has led to reduced exchange enrollment in 2018 and is expected to further 14 worsen the individual and small group market risk pools in future years. it is also anticipated that these and future policies may create additional cost and reimbursement pressures on hospitals. it remains unclear what portions of the legislation may remain, or whether any replacement or alternative programs may be created by any future legislation. any such future repeal or replacement may have significant impact on the reimbursement for healthcare services generally, and may create reimbursement for services competing with the services offered by our hospitals. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the adoption of any future federal or state healthcare reform legislation will not have a negative financial impact on our hospitals, including their ability to compete with alternative healthcare services funded by such potential legislation, or for our hospitals to receive payment for services. we are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the emergency medical treatment and active labor act, or emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient's medical condition, within the facility's capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital's written procedures. our obligations under emtala may increase substantially going forward; cms has sought stakeholder comments concerning the potential applicability of emtala to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively, but has yet to issue further guidance in response to that request. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to inpatients under emtala is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed. if we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors. in recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. cms publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the medicare program. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additionally, the legislation requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results on the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and pricing. this circumstance could harm our business and results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payors and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient's responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. however, we also have substantial receivables due to us from certain state-based funding programs. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payor mix, the agings of the receivables, historical collection experience and assessment of probability of future collections. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payor mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. 15 in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom where the national health service (the nhs ) is the principal provider of healthcare services. in addition to the nhs, we face competition in the united kingdom from independent sector providers and other publicly funded entities for patients. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. the loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. if we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. the technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. to compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. if our facilities do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. if we fail to continue to meet the meaningful use criteria related to electronic health record systems ( ehr ), our operations could be harmed. pursuant to hitech regulations, hospitals that did not qualify as a meaningful user of ehr by 2015 were subject to a reduced market basket update to the inpatient prospective payment system ( ipps ) standardized amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. we believe that all of our acute care hospitals have met the applicable meaningful use criteria and therefore are not subject to a reduced market basked update to the ipps standardized amount. however, under the hitech act, hospitals must continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria in each fiscal year or they will be subject to a market basket update reduction in a subsequent fiscal year. failure of our acute care hospitals to continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria would have an adverse effect on our future net revenues and results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. 16 the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. union organizing activities and certain potential changes in federal labor laws and regulations could increase the likelihood of employee unionization in the future, to the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionized, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal false claims act, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, ( hipaa ), the federal anti-kickback statute and the provision of the social security act commonly known as the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, or oig, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. cms published a medicare self-referral disclosure protocol, which is intended to allow providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the stark law. because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the stark law, there can be no assurance that our hospitals will not be found in violation of the stark law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced penalties. federal regulations issued under hipaa contain provisions that require us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient's health and related financial information. such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. additionally, recent changes to hipaa regulations may result in greater compliance requirements, including obligations to report breaches of unsecured patient data, as well as create new liabilities for the actions of parties acting as business associates on our behalf. these laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see item 3 legal proceedings ), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation . 17 if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. our operations in the united kingdom are also subject to a high level of regulation relating to registration and licensing requirements employee regulation, clinical standards, environmental rules as well as other areas. we are also subject to a highly regulated business environment, and failure to comply with the various laws and regulations, applicable to us could lead to substantial penalties, and other adverse effects on our business. we are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other hazardous materials. if we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. in an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we may be subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits. the federal false claims act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. these private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of whistleblower lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent years. because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. please see item 3. legal proceedings for disclosure of current related matters. the failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain facilities, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals. the economies in the communities in which our hospitals operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers. those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care facilities for their care. the failure of one or more large employer or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. the occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business. 18 if any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under medicare or medicaid. the construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. all of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the medicare program. the effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. we believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. however, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the medicare or medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected. our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to acquire hospitals that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions of hospitals in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital's results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the hospitals we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. in addition, some of the hospitals we acquire had significantly lower operating margins than the hospitals we operate prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the hospitals we acquire, operate such hospitals profitably or effectively integrate the operations of acquired hospitals, our results of operations could be harmed. the trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. we believe that value-based purchasing initiatives of both governmental and private payers tying financial incentives to quality and efficiency of care will increasingly affect the results of operations of our hospitals and other healthcare facilities and may negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet expected quality standards. the affordable care act contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing in federal healthcare programs. medicare now requires providers to report certain quality measures in order to receive full reimbursement increases for inpatient and outpatient procedures that were previously awarded automatically. in addition, hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards will receive increased reimbursement payments, and hospitals that have excess readmissions for specified conditions will receive reduced reimbursement. furthermore, medicare no longer pays hospitals additional amounts for the treatment of certain hospital-acquired conditions unless the conditions were present at admission. beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, hospitals that rank in the worst 25% of all hospitals nationally for hospital acquired conditions in the previous year were subject to reduced medicare reimbursements. the aca also 19 prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for treating certain provider-preventable conditions. there is a trend among private payers toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services, as well. many large commercial payers require hospitals to report quality data, and several of these payers will not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. we are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet quality standards established by both governmental and private payers. if we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers of such hospitals for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of hospitals we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to a facility's reputation could harm our business. we are subject to pending legal actions, purported stockholder class actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions. we, our subsidiaries, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see item 3-legal proceedings ). defending ourselves against the allegations in the lawsuits and governmental investigations, or similar matters and any related publicity, could potentially entail significant costs and could require significant attention from our management. we are unable to predict the outcome of these matters or to reasonably estimate the amount or range of any such loss; however, these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. we are and may become subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown, which may relate to past, present and future facts, events, circumstances and occurrences. should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our legal proceedings or other loss contingencies, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. in particular, government investigations, as well as qui tam lawsuits, may lead to material fines, penalties, damages payments or other sanctions, including exclusion from government healthcare programs. settlements of lawsuits involving medicare and medicaid issues routinely require both monetary payments and corporate integrity agreements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted certificates of need, or ( con ), laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility's license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope 20 of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control. our revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians' clinical decisions and availability, payor programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme low temperatures, hurricanes and tornados, earthquakes, current local economic and demographic changes. in addition, technological developments and pharmaceutical improvements may reduce the demand for healthcare services or the profitability of the services we offer. a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of a contagious disease in the markets in which we operate or that otherwise impacts our facilities could adversely impact our business. if a pandemic or other public health crisis were to affect our markets, our business could be adversely affected. such a crisis could diminish the public trust in healthcare facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose, or that are treating (or have treated) patients affected by contagious diseases. if any of our facilities were involved in treating patients for such a contagious disease, other patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care at our facilities. further, a pandemic might adversely impact our business by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our facilities. although we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, the potential impact of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of a contagious disease with respect to our markets or our facilities is difficult to predict and could adversely impact our business. a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states could materially affect our business and future results of operations. our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. worsening of economic conditions may result in a higher unemployment rate which may increase the number of individuals without health insurance. as a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or an increase in services provided to uninsured patients. these factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results. in addition, as of december 31, 2017, we had approximately $3.8 billion of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. should the revenues and financial results of our acute care and/or behavioral health care facilities be materially, unfavorably impacted due to, among other things, a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states that could negatively impact our patient volumes and reimbursement rates, a continued rise in the unemployment rate and continued increases in the number of uninsured patients treated at our facilities, we may incur future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. legal uncertainty or a worsening of the economic conditions in the united kingdom could materially affect our business and future results of operations. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom affirmatively voted in a non-binding referendum in favor of the exit of the united kingdom from the european union (the brexit ) and it has been approved by vote of the british legislature. on march 29, 2017, the united kingdom triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty formally starting negotiations regarding its exit from the european union. the united kingdom has two years from that date to complete these negotiations. the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union remains uncertain, including the terms of trade between the united kingdom and the european union. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the united kingdom makes to retain access to european union markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. brexit could lead to legal and regulatory uncertainty as the united kingdom determines which european union laws to replace or replicate. the announcement of brexit also created (and the actual exit of the united kingdom from the european union may create future) economic uncertainty, both in the united kingdom and globally. the actual exit of the united kingdom from the european union could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding our business. any of these effects of brexit (and the announcement thereof), and others we cannot anticipate, could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we are exposed to currency exchange risk with respect to the u.s. dollar in relation to the pound sterling, because a portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in pounds. we monitor changes in our exposure to exchange rate risk. while we may elect to enter into hedging arrangements to protect our business against certain currency fluctuations, these hedging arrangements do not provide comprehensive protection, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. a cyber security incident could cause a violation of hipaa, breach of member privacy, or other negative impacts. we rely extensively on our information technology ( it ) systems to manage clinical and financial data, communicate with our patients, payors, vendors and other third parties and summarize and analyze operating results. in addition, we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and utilize electronic health records and to become meaningful users of health information technology pursuant to the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. a cyber-attack that bypasses our it security systems causing an it security breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws, loss of proprietary business information, or a material disruption of our it business systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business and result of operations. in addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of public health information, other confidential data or proprietary business information. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 22 we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. to fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. if any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business. the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock is subject to potential increases or decreases. at december 31, 2017, 26.1 million shares of class b common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of class a, c and d common stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase class b common stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. class a, c and d common stock are convertible on a share for share basis into class b common stock. to the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of class b common stock, the number of shares of class b common stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the current holders of class b common stock would own a smaller percentage of that class. in addition, from time-to-time our board of directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our class b common stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings per share. 23 the right to elect the majority of our board of directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of class a and c common stock, the majority of which is owned by alan b. miller, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of class a common stock vote as a class with the holders of class c common stock, and holders of class b common stock vote as a class with holders of class d common stock, with holders of all classes of our common stock entitled to one vote per share. as of march 21, 2017, the shares of class a and class c common stock constituted 7.5% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect five members of the board of directors and constituted 86.5% of our general voting power as of that date. as of march 21, 2017, the shares of class b and class d common stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 92.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect two members of the board of directors and constituted 13.5% of our general voting power as of that date. as to matters other than the election of directors, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of class a, class b, class c and class d common stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law. each share of class a common stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of class b common stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of class c common stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of class c common stock holds a number of shares of class a common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class c common stock that holder holds); and each share of class d common stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of class d common stock holds a number of shares of class b common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class d common stock that holder holds). in the event a holder of class c or class d common stock holds a number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, less than ten times the number of shares of class c or class d common stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of class c common stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of class d common stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, held by that holder. the board of directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of class a or class b common stock as class c or class d common stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records. since a substantial majority of the class a shares and class c shares are controlled by mr. alan b. miller and members of his family, one of whom (marc d. miller) is also a director and officer of our company, and they can elect a majority of our company's directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company. in addition, because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitat ive disclosures about market risk we manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. to manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. we account for our derivative and hedging activities using the financial accounting standard board's ( fasb ) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. for derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) within shareholders' equity. amounts are reclassified from aoci to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. we use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement. for hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge's inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. the fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. we assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. we performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2017 and 2016 and determined the hedges to be highly effective. we also determined that any portion of the hedges deemed to be ineffective was de minimis and therefore there was no material effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or cash flows. the counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. we do not anticipate nonperformance by our counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. seven interest rate swaps on a total notional amount of $825 million matured in may, 2015. four of these swaps, with a total notional amount of $600 million, became effective in december, 2011 and provided that we receive three-month libor while the average fixed rate payable was 2.38%. the remaining three swaps, with a total notional amount of $225 million, became effective in march, 2011 and provided that we receive three-month libor while the average fixed rate payable was 1.91%. during 2015, we entered into nine forward starting interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $1.0 billion and receive one-month libor. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps, which are scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019, is 1.31%. these interest rates swaps consist of: four forward starting interest rate swaps, entered into during the second quarter of 2015, whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $500 million and receive one-month libor. each of the four swaps became effective on july 15, 2015 and are scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 1.40%; four forward starting interest rate swaps, entered into during the third quarter of 2015, whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $400 million and receive one-month libor. one swap on a notional amount of $100 million became effective on july 15, 2015, two swaps on a total notional amount of $200 million became effective on september 15, 2015 and another swap on a notional amount of $100 million became effective on december 15, 2015. all of these swaps are scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019. the average fixed rate payable on these four swaps is 1.23%, and; one interest rate swap, entered into during the fourth quarter of 2015, whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $100 million and receive one-month libor. the swap became effective on december 15, 2015 and is scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019. the fixed rate payable on this swap is 1.21%. we measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. the fair value of our interest rate swaps is based on quotes from our counterparties. we consider those inputs to be level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. at december 31, 2017, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a net asset of $7 million, $4 million of which is included in net accounts receivable and $3 million of which is included in other assets on the accompanying balance sheet. at december 31, 2016, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was de minimis on 76 a net basis comprised of a $4 million asset which is included in other assets offset by a $4 million liability which in included in other current liabilities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2017. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 2,636 $ 300,286 $ 1,650 $ 1,696 $ 698,835 $ 407,491 $ 1,412,594 average interest rates 4.7 % 4.7 % 5.0 % 5.0 % 4.9 % 4.0 % 4.7 % variable rate: debt $ 542,983 $ 2,084,432 $ 2,627,415 average interest rates 2.9 % 3.0 % 2.2 % interest rate swaps: notional amount $ 1,000,000 $ 1,000,000 average interest rates 1.3 % 1.3 % as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2017 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $16 million.risk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in texas, nevada and california. texas: we own 7 inpatient acute care hospitals and 22 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 16% in 2018, 15% in 2017 and 16% in 2016 of our consolidated net revenues. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 12% in 2018, 11% in 2017 and 7% in 2016, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. nevada: we own 8 inpatient acute care hospitals and 4 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 17% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2018 and 2017 and 16% in 2016. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 24% in 2018, 20% in 2017 and 13% in 2016, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. california: we own 5 inpatient acute care hospitals and 8 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 11% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2018, 2017 and 2016. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 16% in 2018, 13% in 2017 and 15% in 2016, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. the significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in texas, nevada and california. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payers. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party payers, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, deterioration in general economic conditions and the funding requirements from the federal healthcare reform legislation, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. in addition, the vast majority of the net revenues generated at our behavioral health facilities located in the united kingdom are derived from governmental payers. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by governmental payers in the united states or united kingdom are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we receive medicaid revenues in excess of $100 million annually from each of texas, california, washington, d.c., nevada, pennsylvania and illinois, making us particularly sensitive to reductions in medicaid and other state based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payers, including managed care organizations, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payers, including managed care organizations, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. 12 reductions or changes in medicare and medicaid funding could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. on january 3, 2013, president obama signed into law the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 (the 2012 act ). the 2012 act postponed for two months sequestration cuts mandated under the budget control act of 2011. the postponed sequestration cuts include a 2% annual reduction over ten years in medicare spending to providers. medicaid is exempt from sequestration. in order to offset the costs of the legislation, the 2012 act reduces payments to other providers totaling almost $26 billion over ten years. approximately half of those funds will come from reductions in medicare reimbursement to hospitals. although the bipartisan budget act of 2013 has reduced certain sequestration-related budgetary cuts, spending reductions related to the medicare program remain in place. on december 26, 2013, president obama signed into law h.j. res. 59, the bipartisan budget act of 2013, which includes the pathway for sgr reform act of 2013 ( the act ). in addition, on february 15, 2014, public law 113-082 was enacted. the 2012 act and subsequent federal legislation achieves new savings by extending sequestration for mandatory programs including medicare through 2027. please see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, sources of revenue-medicare , for additional disclosure. the 2012 act includes a document and coding ( dci ) adjustment and a reduction in medicaid disproportionate share hospital ( dsh ) payments. expected to save $10.5 billion over 10 years, the dci adjustment decreases projected medicare hospital payments for inpatient and overnight care through a downward adjustment in annual base payment increases. these reductions are meant to recoup what medicare authorities consider to be overpayments to hospitals that occurred as a result of the transition to medicare severity diagnosis related groups. the reduction in medicaid dsh payments was expected to save $4.2 billion over 10 years. this provision extends the changes regarding dsh payments established by the legislation and determines future allotments off of the rebased level. on february 9, 2018, president trump signed into law the bipartisan budget act of 2018, which eliminated the dsh cuts scheduled for 2018 and 2019 but added additional dsh reductions of $4 billion in 2020 and $8 billion a year between 2021 and 2025. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act (the ppaca ). the healthcare and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the reconciliation act ), which contains a number of amendments to the ppaca, was signed into law on march 30, 2010. two primary goals of the ppaca, combined with the reconciliation act (collectively referred to as the legislation ), are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses. although it was expected that as a result of the legislation there would be a reduction in uninsured patients, which would reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the legislation makes a number of other changes to medicare and medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. it has been projected that the legislation will result in a net reduction in medicare and medicaid payments to hospitals totaling $155 billion over 10 years. the legislation revises reimbursement under the medicare and medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. the legislation provides for decreases in the annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning october 1, 2011 for medicare part b reimbursable items and services and beginning october 1, 2012 for medicare inpatient hospital services. the legislation and subsequent revisions provide for reductions to both medicare dsh and medicaid dsh payments. the medicare dsh reductions began in october, 2013 while the medicaid dsh reductions are scheduled to begin in 2020. the legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals will include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates. a 2012 u.s. supreme court ruling limited the federal government's ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional sections of the legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain medicaid coverage requirements. pursuant to that decision, the federal government may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the medicaid expansion program by reducing their existing medicaid funding. therefore, states can choose to accept or not to participate without risking the loss of federal medicaid funding. as a result, many states, including texas, have not expanded their medicaid programs without the threat of loss of federal funding. cms has granted, and is expected to grant additional, section 1115 demonstration waivers providing for work and community engagement requirements for certain medicaid eligible individuals. it is anticipated this will lead to reductions in coverage, and likely increases in uncompensated care, in states where these demonstration waivers are granted. the various provisions in the legislation that directly or indirectly affect medicare and medicaid reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. the impact of the legislation on healthcare providers will be subject to implementing regulations, interpretive guidance and possible future legislation or legal challenges. certain legislation provisions, such as that 13 creating the medicare shared savings program creates uncertainty in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. thus, we cannot predict the impact of the legislation on our future reimbursement at this time and we can provide no assurance that the legislation will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. the legislation also contained provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. the legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and the false claims act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. while congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the anti-kickback statute to provide that a person is not required to have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the anti-kickback statute in order to be found in violation of such law, the legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the anti-kickback statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil false claims act. the legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil false claims act, although certain final regulations implementing this statutory requirement remain pending. the legislation also expands the recovery audit contractor program to medicaid. these amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. these investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. the legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a grandfather clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. the legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. as discussed below, should the legislation be repealed in its entirety, this aspect of the legislation would also be repealed restoring physician ownership of hospitals and expansion right to its position and practice as it existed prior to the legislation. the impact of the legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. because legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the legislation may be subject to further revision. initiatives to repeal the legislation, in whole or in part, to delay elements of implementation or funding, and to offer amendments or supplements to modify its provisions have been persistent. the ultimate outcomes of legislative attempts to repeal or amend the legislation and legal challenges to the legislation are unknown. legislation has already been enacted that has eliminated the penalty for failing to maintain health coverage that was part of the original legislation. in addition, congress has considered legislation that would, if enacted, in material part: (i) eliminate the large employer mandate to obtain or provide health insurance coverage, respectively; (ii) permit insurers to impose a surcharge up to 30 percent on individuals who go uninsured for more than two months and then purchase coverage; (iii) provide tax credits towards the purchase of health insurance, with a phase-out of tax credits accordingly to income level; (iv) expand health savings accounts; (v) impose a per capita cap on federal funding of state medicaid programs, or, if elected by a state, transition federal funding to block grants, and; (vi) permit states to seek a waiver of certain federal requirements that would allow such state to define essential health benefits differently from federal standards and that would allow certain commercial health plans to take health status, including pre-existing conditions, into account in setting premiums. in addition to legislative changes, the legislation can be significantly impacted by executive branch actions. in relevant part, president trump has already taken executive actions: (i) requiring all federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the legislation to exercise all authority and discretion available to them to waiver, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay parts of the legislation that place unwarranted economic and regulatory burdens on states, individuals or health care providers; (ii) the issuance of a final rule in june, 2018 by the department of labor to enable the formation of association health plans that would be exempt from certain legislation requirements such as the provision of essential health benefits; (iii) the issuance of a final rule in august, 2018 by the department of labor, treasury, and health and human services to expand the availability of short-term, limited duration health insurance, (iv) eliminating cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers that would otherwise offset deductibles and other out-of-pocket expenses for health plan enrollees at or below 250 percent of the federal poverty level; (v) relaxing requirements for state innovation waivers that could reduce enrollment in the individual and small group markets and lead to additional enrollment in short-term, limited duration insurance and association health plans; and (vi) the issuance of a proposed rule by the department of labor, treasury, and health and human services that would incentivize the use of health reimbursement accounts by employers to permit employees to purchase health insurance in the individual market. the uncertainty resulting from these executive branch policies has led to reduced exchange enrollment in 2018 and 2019 and is expected to further worsen the individual and small group market risk pools in future years. it is also anticipated that these and future policies may create additional cost and reimbursement pressures on hospitals. it remains unclear what portions of the legislation may remain, or whether any replacement or alternative programs may be created by any future legislation. any such future repeal or replacement may have significant impact on the reimbursement for healthcare services generally, and may create reimbursement for services competing with the services offered by our hospitals. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the adoption of any future federal or state healthcare reform legislation will not have a negative financial impact on our hospitals, including their ability to compete with alternative healthcare services funded by such potential legislation, or for our hospitals to receive payment for services. 14 while attempts to repeal the entirety of the aca have not been successful to date, a key provision of the aca was repealed as part of the tax cuts and jobs act and, on december 14, 2018, a federal u.s. district court judge in texas ruled the entire aca is unconstitutional. while that ruling is stayed and has been appealed, it has caused greater uncertainty regarding the future status of the aca. if all or any parts of the aca are found to be unconstitutional, it could have a material adverse effect on the company. we are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the emergency medical treatment and active labor act, or emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient's medical condition, within the facility's capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital's written procedures. our obligations under emtala may increase substantially going forward; cms has sought stakeholder comments concerning the potential applicability of emtala to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively, but has yet to issue further guidance in response to that request. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to inpatients under emtala is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed. if we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors. in recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. cms publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the medicare program. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additionally, the legislation requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results on the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and pricing. this circumstance could harm our business and results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient's responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. however, we also have substantial receivables due to us from certain state-based funding programs. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payer mix, the agings of the receivables, historical collection experience and assessment of probability of future collections. we routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payer mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we offer. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. 15 we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom where the national health service (the nhs ) is the principal provider of healthcare services. in addition to the nhs, we face competition in the united kingdom from independent sector providers and other publicly funded entities for patients. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. the loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. if we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. the technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. to compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. if our facilities do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. if we fail to continue to meet the promoting interoperability criteria related to electronic health record systems ( ehr ), our operations could be harmed. pursuant to hitech regulations, hospitals that did not qualify as a meaningful user of ehr by 2015 were subject to a reduced market basket update to the inpatient prospective payment system ( ipps ) standardized amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. in the 2019 ipps final rule, cms re-named the meaningful use program to promoting interoperability . we believe that all of our acute care hospitals have met the applicable promoting interoperability criteria and therefore are not subject to a reduced market basked update to the ipps standardized amount. however, under the hitech act, hospitals must continue to meet the applicable criteria in each fiscal year or they will be subject to a market basket update reduction in a subsequent fiscal year. failure of our acute care hospitals to continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria would have an adverse effect on our future net revenues and results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are 16 requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. union organizing activities and certain potential changes in federal labor laws and regulations could increase the likelihood of employee unionization in the future, to the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionized, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services; relationships with physicians and other referral sources; adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services; ownership of facilities; qualifications of medical and support personnel; confidentiality, maintenance, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records; the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions; certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities; operating policies and procedures, and; construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal false claims act, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, ( hipaa ), the federal anti-kickback statute and the provision of the social security act commonly known as the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, or oig, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. cms published a medicare self-referral disclosure protocol, which is intended to allow providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the stark law. because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the stark law, there can be no assurance that our hospitals will not be found in violation of the stark law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced penalties. federal regulations issued under hipaa contain provisions that require us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient's health and related financial information. such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. additionally, recent changes to hipaa regulations may result in greater compliance requirements, including obligations to report breaches of unsecured patient data, as well as create new liabilities for the actions of parties acting as business associates on our behalf. these laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see item 3 legal proceedings ), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation . if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state 17 healthcare programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. our operations in the united kingdom are also subject to a high level of regulation relating to registration and licensing requirements employee regulation, clinical standards, environmental rules as well as other areas. we are also subject to a highly regulated business environment, and failure to comply with the various laws and regulations, applicable to us could lead to substantial penalties, and other adverse effects on our business. we are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control; (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.); (iii) waste management; (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances; and (v) other hazardous materials. if we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. in an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we may be subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits. the federal false claims act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. these private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of whistleblower lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent years. because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. please see item 3. legal proceedings for disclosure of current related matters. the failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain facilities, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals. the economies in the communities in which our hospitals operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers. those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care facilities for their care. the failure of one or more large employer or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. the occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business. 18 if any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under medicare or medicaid. the construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. all of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the medicare program. the effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. we believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. however, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the medicare or medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected. our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to make acquisitions that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. further, an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired properties results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the assets we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the assets or entities that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired operations. integrating an acquisition could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired operations. in addition, some of the acquisitions we have made had significantly lower operating margins than the assets we operated prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the operations we acquire, operate such assets profitably or effectively integrate the acquired operations, our results of operations could be harmed. the trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. we believe that value-based purchasing initiatives of both governmental and private payers tying financial incentives to quality and efficiency of care will increasingly affect the results of operations of our hospitals and other healthcare facilities and may negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet expected quality standards. the legislation contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing in federal healthcare programs. medicare now requires providers to report certain quality measures in order to receive full reimbursement increases for inpatient and outpatient procedures that were previously awarded automatically. in addition, hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards will receive increased reimbursement payments, and hospitals that have excess readmissions for specified conditions will receive reduced reimbursement. furthermore, medicare no longer pays hospitals additional amounts for the treatment of certain hospital-acquired conditions unless the conditions were present at admission. beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, hospitals that rank in the worst 25% of all hospitals nationally for hospital acquired conditions in the previous year were subject to reduced medicare reimbursements. the legislation also prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for treating certain provider-preventable conditions. 19 there is a trend among private payers toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services, as well. many large commercial payers require hospitals to report quality data, and several of these payers will not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. we are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet quality standards established by both governmental and private payers. if we acquire assets or entities with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. assets or entities that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of assets or entities we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to an acquired asset's or entities' reputation could harm our business. we are subject to pending legal actions, purported stockholder class actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions. we, our subsidiaries, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see item 3-legal proceedings ). defending ourselves against the allegations in the lawsuits and governmental investigations, or similar matters and any related publicity, could potentially entail significant costs and could require significant attention from our management and our reputation could suffer significantly. we are unable to predict the outcome of these matters or to reasonably estimate the amount or range of any such loss; however, these lawsuits and the related publicity and news articles that have been published concerning these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows which in turn could cause a decline in our stock price. we are and may become subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown, which may relate to past, present and future facts, events, circumstances and occurrences. should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our legal proceedings or other loss contingencies, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. in particular, government investigations, as well as qui tam and stockholder lawsuits, may lead to material fines, penalties, damages payments or other sanctions, including exclusion from government healthcare programs. settlements of lawsuits involving medicare and medicaid issues routinely require both monetary payments and corporate integrity agreements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted certificates of need, or ( con ), laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility's license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope 20 of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control. our revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians' clinical decisions and availability, payer programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme low temperatures, hurricanes and tornados, earthquakes, current local economic and demographic changes. in addition, technological developments and pharmaceutical improvements may reduce the demand for healthcare services or the profitability of the services we offer. a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of a contagious disease in the markets in which we operate or that otherwise impacts our facilities could adversely impact our business. if a pandemic or other public health crisis were to affect our markets, our business could be adversely affected. such a crisis could diminish the public trust in healthcare facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose, or that are treating (or have treated) patients affected by contagious diseases. if any of our facilities were involved in treating patients for such a contagious disease, other patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care at our facilities. further, a pandemic might adversely impact our business by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our facilities. although we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, the potential impact of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of a contagious disease with respect to our markets or our facilities is difficult to predict and could adversely impact our business. a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states could materially affect our business and future results of operations. our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. worsening of economic conditions may result in a higher unemployment rate which may increase the number of individuals without health insurance. as a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or an increase in services provided to uninsured patients. these factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results. in addition, as of december 31, 2018, we had approximately $3.8 billion of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. should the revenues and financial results of our acute care and/or behavioral health care facilities be materially, unfavorably impacted due to, among other things, a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states that could negatively impact our patient volumes and reimbursement rates, a continued rise in the unemployment rate and continued increases in the number of uninsured patients treated at our facilities, we may incur future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. legal uncertainty or a worsening of the economic conditions in the united kingdom could materially affect our business and future results of operations. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom affirmatively voted in a non-binding referendum in favor of the exit of the united kingdom from the european union (the brexit ) and it has been approved by vote of the british legislature. on march 29, 2017, the united kingdom triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty, formally starting negotiations regarding its exit from the european union, scheduled for march 29, 2019. in november 2018, the united kingdom and the european union agreed upon a draft withdrawal agreement that set out the terms of the united kingdom's departure, including commitments on citizen rights after brexit, a financial settlement from the united kingdom, and a transition period from march 29, 2019 through december 31, 2020 to allow time for a future trade deal to be agreed. on january 15, 2019, the draft withdrawal agreement was rejected by the british legislature, creating significant uncertainty about the terms and timing under which the united kingdom will leave the european union. if the united kingdom leaves the european union with no agreement (a hard brexit ), it will likely have an adverse impact on labor and trade in addition to creating further currency volatility. in the absence of a future trade deal, the united kingdom's trade with the european union and the rest of the world would be subject to tariffs and duties set by the world trade organization. these changes to the trading relationship between the united kingdom and the european union would likely result in increased cost of goods imported into the united kingdom. additional currency volatility could result in a weaker british pound, which may decrease the profitability of our operations in the united kingdom. a weaker british pound versus the u.s. dollar also causes local currency results of our united kingdom operations to be translated into fewer u.s. dollars during a reporting period. 21 brexit could lead to legal and regulatory uncertainty as the united kingdom determines which european union laws to replace or replicate. the exit of the united kingdom from the european union could also create future economic uncertainty, both in the united kingdom and globally, especially in the event of a hard brexit. the actual exit of the united kingdom from the european union could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding our business. any of these effects of brexit (and the announcement thereof), and others we cannot anticipate, could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions, the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we are exposed to currency exchange risk with respect to the u.s. dollar in relation to the pound sterling, because a portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in pounds. we monitor changes in our exposure to exchange rate risk. while we may elect to enter into hedging arrangements to protect our business against certain currency fluctuations, these hedging arrangements do not provide comprehensive protection, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. a cyber security incident could cause a violation of hipaa, breach of member privacy, or other negative impacts. we rely extensively on our information technology ( it ) systems to manage clinical and financial data, communicate with our patients, payers, vendors and other third parties and summarize and analyze operating results. in addition, we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and utilize electronic health records and to become meaningful users of health information technology pursuant to the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. a cyber-attack that bypasses our it security systems causing an it security breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws, loss of proprietary business information, or a material disruption of our it business systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business and result of operations. in addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of public health information, other confidential data or proprietary business information. 22 different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. to fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. if any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. the libor calculation method may change and libor is expected to be phased out after 2021. our credit agreement permits interest on borrowings to be calculated based on libor, and a number of our interest rate swaps are based on libor. on july 27, 2017, the united kingdom financial conduct authority (the fca ) announced that it will no longer require banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. in the meantime, actions by the fca, other regulators, or law enforcement agencies may result in changes to the method by which libor is calculated. at this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of any such changes or any other reforms to libor that may be enacted in the united kingdom or elsewhere. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business. the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock is subject to potential increases or decreases. at december 31, 2018, 24.2 million shares of class b common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of class a, c and d common stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase class b common stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. class a, c and d common stock are convertible on a share for share basis into class b common stock. to the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of class b common stock, the number of 23 shares of class b common stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the current holders of class b common stock would own a smaller percentage of that class. in addition, from time-to-time our board of directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our class b common stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings per share. the right to elect the majority of our board of directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of class a and c common stock, the majority of which is owned by alan b. miller, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of class a common stock vote as a class with the holders of class c common stock, and holders of class b common stock vote as a class with holders of class d common stock, with holders of all classes of our common stock entitled to one vote per share. as of march 20, 2018, the shares of class a and class c common stock constituted 7.7% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect five members of the board of directors and constituted 86.8% of our general voting power as of that date. as of march 20, 2018, the shares of class b and class d common stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 92.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect two members of the board of directors and constituted 13.2% of our general voting power as of that date. as to matters other than the election of directors, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of class a, class b, class c and class d common stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law. each share of class a common stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote; each share of class b common stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote; each share of class c common stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of class c common stock holds a number of shares of class a common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class c common stock that holder holds); and each share of class d common stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of class d common stock holds a number of shares of class b common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class d common stock that holder holds). in the event a holder of class c or class d common stock holds a number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, less than ten times the number of shares of class c or class d common stock that holder holds, then that holder will be entitled to only one vote for every share of class c common stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of class d common stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, held by that holder. the board of directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of class a or class b common stock as class c or class d common stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records. since a substantial majority of the class a shares and class c shares are controlled by mr. alan b. miller and members of his family, one of whom (marc d. miller) is also a director and officer of our company, and they can elect a majority of our company's directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company. in addition, because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. to manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. we account for our derivative and hedging activities using the financial accounting standard board's ( fasb ) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. for derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) within shareholders' equity. amounts are reclassified from aoci to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. we use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement. for hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge's inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. the fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. we assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. we performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2018 and 2017 and determined the hedges to be highly effective. we also determined that any portion of the hedges deemed to be ineffective was de minimis and therefore there was no material effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or cash flows. the counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. we do not anticipate nonperformance by our counterparties. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. during 2015, we entered into nine forward starting interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $1.0 billion and receive one-month libor. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps, which are scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019, is 1.31%. these interest rates swaps consist of: four forward starting interest rate swaps, entered into during the second quarter of 2015, whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $500 million and receive one-month libor. each of the four swaps became effective on july 15, 2015 and are scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 1.40%; four forward starting interest rate swaps, entered into during the third quarter of 2015, whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $400 million and receive one-month libor. one swap on a notional amount of $100 million became effective on july 15, 2015, two swaps on a total notional amount of $200 million became effective on september 15, 2015 and another swap on a notional amount of $100 million became effective on december 15, 2015. all of these swaps are scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019. the average fixed rate payable on these four swaps is 1.23%, and; one interest rate swap, entered into during the fourth quarter of 2015, whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $100 million and receive one-month libor. the swap became effective on december 15, 2015 and is scheduled to mature on april 15, 2019. the fixed rate payable on this swap is 1.21%. on or before the april 15, 2019 expiration of the $1.0 billion of interest rate swaps, as outlined above, we intend to enter into new interest rate swap agreements on a similar total notional amount. 79 we measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. the fair value of our interest rate swaps is based on quotes from our counterparties. we consider those inputs to be level 2 in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. at december 31, 2018, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a net asset of $4 million which is included in net accounts receivable on the accompanying balance sheet. at december 31, 2017, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a net asset of $7 million, $4 million of which is included in net accounts receivable and $3 million of which is included in other assets on the accompanying balance sheet. the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 2018. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollars in thousands) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 2,146 $ 1,650 $ 1,696 $ 699,550 $ 2,476 $ 405,613 $ 1,113,131 average interest rates 5.0 % 5.0 % 4.9 % 4.9 % 5.2 % 3.7 % 4.8 % variable rate: debt $ 61,300 $ 55,000 494,400 105,000 1,700,079 469,727 $ 2,885,506 average interest rates 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 4.0 % 4.0 % 2.7 % 3.7 % interest rate swaps: notional amount $ 1,000,000 $ 1,000,000 average interest rates 1.3 % 1.3 % as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2018 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $19 million.risk factors we are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report. any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in texas, nevada and california. texas: we own 7 inpatient acute care hospitals and 22 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 16% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2019 and 2018 and 15% in 2017. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 14% in 2019, 12% in 2018 and 11% in 2017, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. nevada: we own 8 inpatient acute care hospitals and 4 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 18% of our consolidated net revenues during 2019 and 17% during each of 2018 and 2017. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 23% in 2019, 24% in 2018 and 20% in 2017, of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. california: we own 5 inpatient acute care hospitals and 8 inpatient behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in item 2. properties . on a combined basis, these facilities contributed 11% of our consolidated net revenues during each of 2019, 2018 and 2017. on a combined basis, after deducting an allocation for corporate overhead expense, these facilities generated 17% in 2019, 16% in 2018 and 13% in 2017 of our income from operations after net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. the significant portion of our revenues and earnings derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to legislative, regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in texas, nevada and california. any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. our revenues and results of operations are significantly affected by payments received from the government and other third party payers. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from third-party payers, including the medicare and medicaid programs. changes in these government programs in recent years have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. we are unable to predict the effect of recent and future policy changes on 12 our operations. in addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon federal and state governments as a result of, among other things, deterioration in general economic conditions and the funding requirements from the federal healthcare reform legislation, may affect the availability of taxpayer funds for medicare and medicaid programs. in addition, the vast majority of the net revenues generated at our behavioral health facilities located in the united kingdom are derived from governmental payer s. if the rates paid or the scope of services covered by governmental payer in the united states or united kingdom are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we receive medicaid revenues in excess of $100 million annually from each of california, texas, nevada, washington, d.c., pennsylvania and illinois, making us particularly sensitive to reductions in medicaid and other state based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. in addition to changes in government reimbursement programs, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with private payers, including managed care organizations, significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our hospitals. private payers, including managed care organizations, increasingly are demanding that we accept lower rates of payment. we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. reductions or changes in medicare and medicaid funding could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. the budget control act of 2011 (the budget control act ) mandated significant reductions in federal spending for fiscal years 2012-2021, including a reduction of 2% on all medicare payments during this period. subsequent legislation enacted by congress extended these reductions through 2029. there is a substantial risk that congress could act to extend or increase these across-the-board reductions. the proposed 2020 federal budget calls for an $845 billion reduction in medicare spending and a $1.5 trillion reduction in medicaid spending over the next decade. it is impossible to predict what portion, if any, of these proposed federal health care spending reductions will be included in a congressionally approved budget. please see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, sources of revenue-medicare , for additional disclosure. beginning in 2020 and continuing through 2025, the medicaid disproportionate share hospital ( dsh ) allotment to the states from federal funds will be reduced. such reductions have been delayed several times, most recently under the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020, which further delays the dsh through may 23, 2020. commencing in 2020 and continuing through 2025, a state's medicaid dsh allotment from federal funds will be reduced. initially, dsh payments will be reduced by $4 billion in 2020, and then $8 billion per year between 2021 and 2025. reductions are imposed on states based on percentage of uninsured individuals, medicaid utilization, and uncompensated care. we are subject to uncertainties regarding health care reform. on march 23, 2010, president obama signed into law the patient protection and affordable care act (the legislation ). two primary goals of the legislation are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses. although it was expected that as a result of the legislation there would be a reduction in uninsured patients, which would reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the legislation makes a number of other changes to medicare and medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. it has been projected that the legislation will result in a net reduction in medicare and medicaid payments to hospitals totaling $155 billion over 10 years. the legislation revises reimbursement under the medicare and medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. the legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters such hospitals will include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates. it remains unclear what portions of that legislation may remain, or what any replacement or alternative programs may be created by future legislation. a 2012 u.s. supreme court ruling limited the federal government's ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional sections of the legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain medicaid coverage requirements. pursuant to that decision, the federal government may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the medicaid expansion program by reducing their existing medicaid funding. therefore, states can choose to accept or not to participate without risking the loss of federal medicaid funding. as a result, many states, including texas, have not expanded their medicaid programs without the threat of loss of federal funding. cms has granted, and is expected to grant additional, section 1115 13 demonstration waivers providing for work and community engagement requirements for certain medicaid eligible individuals. cms has also released guidance to states interested in receiving their medicaid funding through a block grant mechanism. it is anticipated this will lead to reductions in coverage, and likely increases in uncompensated care, in states where these demonstration waivers are granted. the various provisions in the legislation that directly or indirectly affect medicare and medicaid reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. the impact of the legislation on healthcare providers will be subject to implementing regulations, interpretive guidance and possible future legislation or legal challenges. certain legislation provisions, such as that creating the medicare shared savings program creates uncertainty in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. thus, we cannot predict the impact of the legislation on our future reimbursement at this time and we can provide no assurance that the legislation will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. the legislation also contained provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. the legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and the false claims act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. while congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the anti-kickback statute to provide that a person is not required to have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of the anti-kickback statute in order to be found in violation of such law, the legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the anti-kickback statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil false claims act. the legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil false claims act, although certain final regulations implementing this statutory requirement remain pending. the legislation also expands the recovery audit contractor program to medicaid. these amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. these investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. the legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a grandfather clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. the legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. as discussed below, should the legislation be repealed in its entirety, this aspect of the legislation would also be repealed restoring physician ownership of hospitals and expansion right to its position and practice as it existed prior to the legislation. the impact of the legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. because legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the legislation may be subject to further revision. initiatives to repeal the legislation, in whole or in part, to delay elements of implementation or funding, and to offer amendments or supplements to modify its provisions have been persistent. the ultimate outcomes of legislative attempts to repeal or amend the legislation and legal challenges to the legislation are unknown. legislation has already been enacted that has eliminated the penalty for failing to maintain health coverage that was part of the original legislation. in addition, congress has considered legislation that would, if enacted, in material part: (i) eliminate the large employer mandate to obtain or provide health insurance coverage, respectively (ii) permit insurers to impose a surcharge up to 30 percent on individuals who go uninsured for more than two months and then purchase coverage (iii) provide tax credits towards the purchase of health insurance, with a phase-out of tax credits accordingly to income level (iv) expand health savings accounts (v) impose a per capita cap on federal funding of state medicaid programs, or, if elected by a state, transition federal funding to block grants, and (vi) permit states to seek a waiver of certain federal requirements that would allow such state to define essential health benefits differently from federal standards and that would allow certain commercial health plans to take health status, including pre-existing conditions, into account in setting premiums. in addition to legislative changes, the legislation can be significantly impacted by executive branch actions. in relevant part, president trump has already taken executive actions: (i) requiring all federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the legislation to exercise all authority and discretion available to them to waiver, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay parts of the legislation that place unwarranted economic and regulatory burdens on states, individuals or health care providers (ii) the issuance of a final rule in june, 2018 by the department of labor to enable the formation of association health plans that would be exempt from certain legislation requirements such as the provision of essential health benefits (iii) the issuance of a final rule in august, 2018 by the department of labor, treasury, and health and human services to expand the availability of short-term, limited duration health insurance, (iv) eliminating cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers that would otherwise offset deductibles and other out-of-pocket expenses for health plan enrollees at or below 250 percent of the federal poverty level (v) relaxing requirements for state innovation waivers that could reduce enrollment in the individual and small group markets and lead to additional enrollment in short-term, limited duration insurance and association health plans and (vi) the issuance of a final rule by the department of labor, treasury, and health and human services that would incentivize the use of health reimbursement accounts by employers to permit employees to purchase health insurance in the individual market. the uncertainty resulting from these executive branch policies has led to reduced exchange 14 enrollment in 2018 , 2019 and 2020 is expected to further worsen the individual and small group market risk pools in future years. it is also anticipated that these and future policies may create additional cost and reimbursement pressures on hospitals. it remains unclear what portions of the legislation may remain, or whether any replacement or alternative programs may be created by any future legislation. any such future repeal or replacement may have significant impact on the reimbursement for healthcare services generally, and may create reimbursement for services competing with the services offered by our hospitals. accordingly, there can be no assurance that the adoption of any future federal or state healthcare reform legislation will not have a negative financial impact on our hospitals, including their ability to compete with alternative healthcare services funded by such potential legislation, or for our hospitals to receive payment for services. while attempts to repeal the entirety of the legislation have not been successful to date, a key provision of the legislation was repealed as part of the tax cuts and jobs act and, on december 14, 2018, a federal u.s. district court judge in texas ruled the entire legislation is unconstitutional. the court concluded that the individual mandate is no longer permissible under congress's taxing power as a result of the tax cut and jobs act of 2017 reducing the individual mandate's tax to $0 (i.e., it no longer produces revenue, which is an essential feature of a tax), rendering the legislation unconstitutional. the court also held that because the individual mandate is essential to the legislation and is inseverable from the rest of the law, the entire legislation is unconstitutional. because the court issued a declaratory judgment and did not enjoin the law, the legislation remains in place pending its appeal. the district court for the northern district of texas ruling was appealed to the u.s. court of appeals for the fifth circuit. on december 18, 2019, the 5th circuit court of appeals' three-judge panel voted 2-1 to strike down the legislation individual mandate as unconstitutional. the 5 th circuit court also sent the case back to the texas district court to determine which legislation provisions should be stricken with the mandate or whether the entire law is unconstitutional without the individual mandate. it is likely this matter will ultimately be appealed to the united states supreme court. these rulings have caused greater uncertainty regarding the future status of the legislation. if all or any parts of the legislation are found to be unconstitutional, it could have a material adverse effect on hospitals. if rates paid or the scope of services covered by government payers are reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. we are required to treat patients with emergency medical conditions regardless of ability to pay. in accordance with our internal policies and procedures, as well as the emergency medical treatment and active labor act, or emtala, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to one of our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. if it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide such further medical examination and treatment as is required to stabilize the patient's medical condition, within the facility's capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital's written procedures. our obligations under emtala may increase substantially going forward cms has sought stakeholder comments concerning the potential applicability of emtala to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively, but has yet to issue further guidance in response to that request. if the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, or if regulations expanding our obligations to inpatients under emtala is proposed and adopted, our results of operations will be harmed. if we are not able to provide high quality medical care at a reasonable price, patients may choose to receive their health care from our competitors. in recent years, the number of quality measures that hospitals are required to report publicly has increased. cms publishes performance data related to quality measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals submit in connection with the medicare program. federal law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be reported. additionally, the legislation requires all hospitals to annually establish, update and make public a list of their standard charges for products and services. if any of our hospitals achieve poor results on the quality measures or patient satisfaction surveys (or results that are lower than our competitors) or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, our patient volume could decline because patients may elect to use competing hospitals or other health care providers that have better metrics and pricing. this circumstance could harm our business and results of operations. an increase in uninsured and underinsured patients in our acute care facilities or the deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. collection of receivables from third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill that is the patient's responsibility, which primarily includes co-payments and deductibles. however, we also have substantial receivables due to us from certain state-based funding programs. we estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payer mix, the agings of the receivables, historical collection experience and assessment of probability of future collections. we routinely review accounts 15 receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions that might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. significant changes in business office operations, payer mix, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental health coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable, cash flow and results of operations. if we experience unexpected increases in the growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or in bad debt expenses, our results of operations will be harmed. our hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and health care providers. the healthcare industry is highly competitive, and competition among hospitals, and other healthcare providers for patients and physicians has intensified in recent years. in all of the geographical areas in which we operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sales and income taxes. such exemptions and support are not available to us. in some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than we offer. the number of inpatient facilities, as well as outpatient surgical and diagnostic centers, many of which are fully or partially owned by physicians, in the geographic areas in which we operate has increased significantly. as a result, most of our hospitals operate in an increasingly competitive environment. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom where the national health service (the nhs ) is the principal provider of healthcare services. in addition to the nhs, we face competition in the united kingdom from independent sector providers and other publicly funded entities for patients. if our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit physicians and other healthcare professionals, expand services or obtain favorable managed care contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in patient volume and our business may be harmed. our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. as a result, the success and competitive advantage of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. physicians generally are not employees of our hospitals, and, in a number of our markets, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. they may terminate their affiliation with us at any time. if we are unable to provide high ethical and professional standards, adequate support personnel and technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations may decline. it may become difficult for us to attract and retain an adequate number of physicians to practice in certain of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals are located. our failure to recruit physicians to these communities or the loss of physicians in these communities could make it more difficult to attract patients to our hospitals and thereby may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. the loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. if we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. the technology used in medical equipment and related devices is constantly evolving and, as a result, manufacturers and distributors continue to offer new and upgraded products to health care providers. to compete effectively, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when significant technological advances occur. if our facilities do not stay current with technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and/or physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our business. 16 if we fail to continue to meet the promoting interoperability criteria related to electronic health record systems ( ehr ), our operations could be harmed. pursuant to hitech regulations, hospitals that did not qualify as a meaningful user of ehr by 2015 were subject to a reduced market basket update to the inpatient prospective payment system ( ipps ) standardized amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. in the 2019 ipps final rule, cms re-named the meaningful use program to promoting interoperability . we believe that all of our acute care hospitals have met the applicable promoting interoperability criteria and therefore are not subject to a reduced market basked update to the ipps standardized amount. however, under the hitech act, hospitals must continue to meet the applicable criteria in each fiscal year or they will be subject to a market basket update reduction in a subsequent fiscal year. failure of our acute care hospitals to continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria would have an adverse effect on our future net revenues and results of operations. our performance depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and medical support staff and we face competition for staffing that may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other healthcare professionals. we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. the nationwide shortage of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue facing us and other healthcare providers. this shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel. in addition, in some markets like california, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. to the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may be required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets, which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. we cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. if our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm our results of operations. increased labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs. union organizing activities and certain potential changes in federal labor laws and regulations could increase the likelihood of employee unionization in the future, to the extent a greater portion of our employee base unionized, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations that could reduce our revenue and profitability. the healthcare industry is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: hospital billing practices and prices for services relationships with physicians and other referral sources adequacy of medical care and quality of medical equipment and services ownership of facilities qualifications of medical and support personnel confidentiality, maintenance, privacy and security issues associated with health-related information and patient medical records the screening, stabilization and transfer of patients who have emergency medical conditions certification, licensure and accreditation of our facilities operating policies and procedures, and construction or expansion of facilities and services. among these laws are the federal false claims act, the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, ( hipaa ), the federal anti-kickback statute and the provision of the social security act commonly known as the stark law. these laws, and particularly the anti-kickback statute and the stark law, impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and other referral sources. we have a variety of financial relationships with physicians who refer patients to our facilities, including employment contracts, leases and professional service agreements. we also provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit physicians into communities served by our hospitals. the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services, or oig, has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution under the anti-kickback statute. a number of our current arrangements, including financial relationships with physicians and other referral sources, may not qualify for safe harbor protection under the anti-kickback statute. failure to meet a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the anti-kickback statute, but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. we cannot assure that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the anti-kickback statute. cms published a medicare self-referral disclosure protocol, which is intended to allow providers to self-disclose actual or potential violations of the stark law. because there are only a few judicial decisions interpreting the stark law, there can be no assurance that our hospitals will not be found in violation of the stark law or that self-disclosure of a potential violation would result in reduced penalties. 17 federal regulations issued under hipaa contain provisions that require us to implement and, in the future, may require us to implement additional costly electronic media security systems and to adopt new business practices designed to protect the privacy and security of each of our patient's health and related financial information. such privacy and security regulations impose extensive administrative, physical and technical requirements on us, restrict our use and disclosure of certain patient health and financial information, provide patients with rights with respect to their health information and require us to enter into contracts extending many of the privacy and security regulatory requirements to third parties that perform duties on our behalf. additionally, recent changes to hipaa regulations may result in greater compliance requirements, including obligations to report breaches of unsecured patient data, as well as create new liabilities for the actions of parties acting as business associates on our behalf. these laws and regulations are extremely complex, and, in many cases, we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. in the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. a determination that we have violated one or more of these laws (see item 3 legal proceedings ), or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and our business reputation could suffer significantly. in addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may take or what their impact on us may be. see item 1 business self-referral and anti-kickback legislation . if we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the stark law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from participation in the medicare, medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. the imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we also operate health care facilities in the united kingdom and have operations and commercial relationships with companies in other foreign jurisdictions and, as a result, are subject to certain u.s. and foreign laws applicable to businesses generally, including anti-corruption laws. the foreign corrupt practices act regulates u.s. companies in their dealings with foreign officials, prohibiting bribes and similar practices, and requires that they maintain records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and appropriate internal accounting controls. in addition, the united kingdom bribery act has wide jurisdiction over certain activities that affect the united kingdom. our operations in the united kingdom are also subject to a high level of regulation relating to registration and licensing requirements employee regulation, clinical standards, environmental rules as well as other areas. we are also subject to a highly regulated business environment, and failure to comply with the various laws and regulations, applicable to us could lead to substantial penalties, and other adverse effects on our business. we are subject to occupational health, safety and other similar regulations and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business and results of operations. we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. regulatory requirements affecting us include, but are not limited to, those covering: (i) air and water quality control (ii) occupational health and safety (e.g., standards regarding blood-borne pathogens and ergonomics, etc.) (iii) waste management (iv) the handling of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive substances and (v) other hazardous materials. if we fail to comply with those standards, we may be subject to sanctions and penalties that could harm our business and results of operations. we may be subject to liabilities from claims brought against our facilities. we are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, product liability lawsuits, class action lawsuits and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. some of these actions may involve large claims, as well as significant defense costs. we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits or the effect that findings in such lawsuits may have on us. in an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. we believe that, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, our insurance coverage is adequate considering the claims arising from the operations of our hospitals. while we continuously monitor our coverage, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates. if such policy limitations should be partially or fully exhausted in the future, or payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 18 we may be subject to governmental investigations, regulatory actions and whistleblower lawsuits. the federal false claims act permits private parties to bring qui tam, or whistleblower, lawsuits against companies. whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. these private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of whistleblower lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent years. because qui tam lawsuits are filed under seal, we could be named in one or more such lawsuits of which we are not aware. please see item 3. legal proceedings for disclosure of current related matters. the failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain facilities, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals. the economies in the communities in which our hospitals operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers. those employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and other health care facilities for their care. the failure of one or more large employer or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at facilities located in or near the communities where our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere to seek employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. the occurrence of these events could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations, thereby harming our business. if any of our existing health care facilities lose their accreditation or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under medicare or medicaid. the construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities to assure their continued compliance with these various standards. all of our hospitals are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the medicare program. the effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs. we believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant regulations and standards. however, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the medicare or medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be materially adversely effected. our growth strategy depends, in part, on acquisitions, and we may not be able to continue to make acquisitions that meet our target criteria. we may also have difficulties acquiring hospitals from not-for-profit entities due to regulatory scrutiny. acquisitions in select markets are a key element of our growth strategy. we face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit healthcare companies, as well as from not-for-profit entities. some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. also, suitable acquisitions may not be accomplished due to unfavorable terms. in addition, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that affect the conversion or sale of not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. these laws generally require prior approval from the state attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. in addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation may exercise discretionary authority over such transactions. although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a not-for-profit entity sells a healthcare facility to a for-profit entity. the adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation, increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions or our inability to effectively compete against other potential purchasers could make it more difficult for us to acquire additional hospitals, increase our acquisition costs or make it difficult for us to acquire hospitals that meet our target acquisition criteria, any of which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. further, an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired properties results of operations, allocation of the purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limits on rate increases. we may fail to improve or integrate the operations of the assets we acquire, which could harm our results of operations and adversely affect our growth strategy. we may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the assets or entities that we acquire with our ongoing operations. we may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired operations. integrating an acquisition could be 19 expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. in addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired operations . in addition, some of the acquisitions we have made had significantly lower operating margins than the assets we operate d prior to the time of our acquisition. if we fail to improve the operating margins of the operations we acquire, operate such assets profitably or effectively integrate the acquired o perations, our results of operations could be harmed. the trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. we believe that value-based purchasing initiatives of both governmental and private payers tying financial incentives to quality and efficiency of care will increasingly affect the results of operations of our hospitals and other healthcare facilities and may negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet expected quality standards. the legislation contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing in federal healthcare programs. medicare now requires providers to report certain quality measures in order to receive full reimbursement increases for inpatient and outpatient procedures that were previously awarded automatically. in addition, hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards will receive increased reimbursement payments, and hospitals that have excess readmissions for specified conditions will receive reduced reimbursement. furthermore, medicare no longer pays hospitals additional amounts for the treatment of certain hospital-acquired conditions unless the conditions were present at admission. beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, hospitals that rank in the worst 25% of all hospitals nationally for hospital acquired conditions in the previous year were subject to reduced medicare reimbursements. the legislation also prohibits the use of federal funds under the medicaid program to reimburse providers for treating certain provider-preventable conditions. there is a trend among private payers toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services, as well. many large commercial payers require hospitals to report quality data, and several of these payers will not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. we expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. we are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues if we are unable to meet quality standards established by both governmental and private payers. if we acquire assets or entities with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. assets or entities that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. although we typically attempt to exclude significant liabilities from our acquisition transactions and seek indemnification from the sellers for these matters, we could experience difficulty enforcing those obligations or we could incur material liabilities for the past activities of assets or entities we acquire. such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to an acquired asset's or entities' reputation could harm our business. we are subject to pending legal actions, purported stockholder class actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions. we, our subsidiaries, psi, and its subsidiaries, are subject to pending legal actions, governmental investigations and regulatory actions (see item 3-legal proceedings ). defending ourselves against the allegations in the lawsuits and governmental investigations, or similar matters and any related publicity, could potentially entail significant costs and could require significant attention from our management and our reputation could suffer significantly. we are unable to predict the outcome of these matters or to reasonably estimate the amount or range of any such loss however, these lawsuits and the related publicity and news articles that have been published concerning these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows which in turn could cause a decline in our stock price. we are and may become subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown, which may relate to past, present and future facts, events, circumstances and occurrences. should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of our legal proceedings or other loss contingencies, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. in particular, government investigations, as well as qui tam and stockholder lawsuits, may lead to material fines, penalties, damages payments or other sanctions, including exclusion from government healthcare programs. settlements of lawsuits involving medicare and medicaid issues routinely require both monetary payments and corporate integrity agreements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. 20 state efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care facilities could impair our ability to expand. many of the states in which we operate hospitals have enacted certificates of need, or ( con ), laws as a condition prior to hospital capital expenditures, construction, expansion, modernization or initiation of major new services. our failure to obtain necessary state approval could result in our inability to complete a particular hospital acquisition, expansion or replacement, make a facility ineligible to receive reimbursement under the medicare or medicaid programs, result in the revocation of a facility's license or impose civil or criminal penalties on us, any of which could harm our business. in addition, significant con reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services from review requirements. in the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. controls designed to reduce inpatient services and increasing rates of denials may reduce our revenues. controls imposed by third-party payers designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization review, have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. in addition, we have been experiencing increasing rates of denied claims ( denials ) from managed care payers which have reduced our net revenues and increased our operating costs as we devote additional resources to enhanced documentation and collection efforts. although we cannot predict the effect these factors will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed, and reimbursements withheld due to denials, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. our revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control. our revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians' clinical decisions and availability, payer programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme low temperatures, hurricanes and tornados, earthquakes, climate change, current local economic and demographic changes. in addition, technological developments and pharmaceutical improvements may reduce the demand for healthcare services or the profitability of the services we offer. a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of a contagious disease in the markets in which we operate or that otherwise impacts our facilities could adversely impact our business. if a pandemic or other public health crisis were to affect our markets, such as a major breakout of the coronavirus in the united states or the united kingdom, our business could be adversely affected. such a crisis could diminish the public trust in healthcare facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose, or that are treating (or have treated) patients affected by contagious diseases. if any of our facilities were involved in treating patients for such a contagious disease, other patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care at our facilities. further, a pandemic might adversely impact our business by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our facilities. although we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, the potential impact of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of a contagious disease with respect to our markets or our facilities is difficult to predict and could adversely impact our business. a worsening of economic and employment conditions in the united states could materially affect our business and future results of operations. our patient volumes, revenues and financial results depend significantly on the universe of patients with health insurance, which to a large extent is dependent on the employment status of individuals in our markets. worsening of economic conditions may result in a higher unemployment rate which may increase the number of individuals without health insurance. as a result, our facilities may experience a decrease in patient volumes, particularly in less intense, more elective service lines, or an increase in services provided to uninsured patients. these factors could have a material unfavorable impact on our future patient volumes, revenues and operating results. in addition, as of december 31, 2019, we had approximately $3.9 billion of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. should the revenues and financial results of our acute care and/or behavioral health care facilities be materially, unfavorably impacted due to, among other things, a worsening of the economic and employment conditions in the united states that could negatively impact our patient volumes and reimbursement rates, a continued rise in the unemployment rate and continued increases in 21 the number of uninsured patients treated at our facilities, we may incur future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. legal uncertainty or a worsening of the economic conditions in the united kingdom could materially affect our business and future results of operations. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom affirmatively voted in a non-binding referendum in favor of the exit of the united kingdom from the european union (the brexit ) and it was approved by vote of the british legislature. on march 29, 2017, the united kingdom triggered article 50 of the lisbon treaty, formally starting negotiations regarding its exit from the european union. on january 31, 2020 the united kingdom formally exited the european union. the united kingdom and european union will now enter into a transition period in which the terms of the future relationship must be negotiated. the outcome of these negotiations is uncertain, and we do not know to what extent brexit will ultimately impact the business and regulatory environment in the united kingdom, the european union, or other countries. the united kingdom will continue to follow european union rules through at least december 31, 2020 (the transition period ). the transition period may be extended through december 31, 2022. in the absence of a future trade deal, following the expiration of the transition period, the united kingdom's trade with the european union and the rest of the world would be subject to tariffs and duties set by the world trade organization. these changes to the trading relationship between the united kingdom and the european union would likely result in increased cost of goods imported into the united kingdom. additional currency volatility could result in a weaker british pound, which may decrease the profitability of our operations in the united kingdom. a weaker british pound versus the u.s. dollar also causes local currency results of our united kingdom operations to be translated into fewer u.s. dollars during a reporting period. brexit could lead to legal and regulatory uncertainty as the united kingdom determines which european union laws to replace or replicate. brexit could also lead to increased legal and regulatory complexity as national laws and regulations in the united kingdom start to diverge from european union laws and regulations. the exit of the united kingdom from the european union could also create future economic uncertainty, both in the united kingdom and globally and could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding our business. any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations in our operating results, quarter to quarter earnings and other factors may result in decreases in the price of our common stock. the stock markets have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to operating performance. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and, as a result, there may be significant volatility in the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to operate our hospitals as profitably as we have in the past or as our stockholders expect us to in the future, the market price of our common stock will likely decline as stockholders could sell shares of our common stock when it becomes apparent that the market expectations may not be realized. in addition to our operating results, many economic and seasonal factors outside of our control could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and increase fluctuations in our quarterly earnings. these factors include certain of the risks discussed herein, demographic changes, operating results of other hospital companies, changes in our financial estimates or recommendations of securities analysts, speculation in the press or investment community, the possible effects of war, terrorist and other hostilities, adverse weather conditions (whether caused by climate change or otherwise), the level of seasonal illnesses, managed care contract negotiations and terminations, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets, or other developments affecting the health care industry. our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. we are exposed to currency exchange risk with respect to the u.s. dollar in relation to the pound sterling, because a portion of our revenue and expenses are denominated in pounds. we monitor changes in our exposure to exchange rate risk. while we may elect to enter into hedging arrangements to protect our business against certain currency fluctuations, these hedging arrangements do not provide comprehensive protection, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by foreign exchange fluctuations. we are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. as a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. while we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we 22 cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. for example, we cannot provide assurance that, in the future, our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our annual report on form 10-k or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. if we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. a cyber security incident could cause a violation of hipaa, breach of member privacy, or other negative impacts. we rely extensively on our information technology ( it ) systems to manage clinical and financial data, communicate with our patients, payers, vendors and other third parties and summarize and analyze operating results. in addition, we have made significant investments in technology to adopt and utilize electronic health records and to become meaningful users of health information technology pursuant to the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009. a cyber-attack that bypasses our it security systems causing an it security breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws, loss of proprietary business information, or a material disruption of our it business systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business and result of operations. in addition, our future results of operations, as well as our reputation, could be adversely impacted by theft, destruction, loss, or misappropriation of public health information, other confidential data or proprietary business information. different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the sec. such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. we continue to see rising costs in construction materials and labor. such increased costs could have an adverse effect on the cash flow return on investment relating to our capital projects. the cost of construction materials and labor has significantly increased. as we continue to invest in modern technologies, emergency rooms and operating room expansions, the construction of medical office buildings for physician expansion and reconfiguring the flow of patient care, we spend large amounts of money generated from our operating cash flow or borrowed funds. although we evaluate the financial feasibility of such projects by determining whether the projected cash flow return on investment exceeds our cost of capital, such returns may not be achieved if the cost of construction continues to rise significantly or the expected patient volumes are not attained. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding and we cannot be certain of the availability and terms of capital to fund the growth of our business when needed. we require substantial capital resources to fund our acquisition growth strategy and our ongoing capital expenditure programs for renovation, expansion, construction and addition of medical equipment and technology. we believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. we cannot predict, however, whether financing for our growth plans and capital expenditure programs will be available to us on satisfactory terms when needed, which could harm our business. to fund all or a portion of our future financing needs, we rely on borrowings from various sources including fixed rate, long-term debt as well as borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization program. if any of the lenders were unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. the libor calculation method may change and libor is expected to be phased out after 2021. 23 our credit agreement permits interest on borrowings to be calculated based on libor, and in the past, we have had i nterest rate swaps that were based on libor. on july 27, 2017, the united kingdom financial conduct authority (the fca ) announced that it will no longer require banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. the phase-out of libor may result in the establishment of one or more alternative benchmark rates, but at this time it is uncertain what alternative benchmark rates would replace libor. in the meantime, actions by the fca, other regulators, or law enforcement agencies may result in changes to the method by which libor is calculated. at this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of any such changes or any other reforms to libor that may be enacted in the united kingdom or elsewhere. we depend heavily on key management personnel and the departure of one or more of our key executives or a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could harm our business. the expertise and efforts of our senior executives and key members of our local hospital management personnel are critical to the success of our business. the loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or of a significant portion of our local hospital management personnel could significantly undermine our management expertise and our ability to provide efficient, quality healthcare services at our facilities, which could harm our business. the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock is subject to potential increases or decreases. at december 31, 2019, 20.6 million shares of class b common stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of class a, c and d common stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase class b common stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. class a, c and d common stock are convertible on a share for share basis into class b common stock. to the extent that these shares were converted into or exercised for shares of class b common stock, the number of shares of class b common stock available for trading in the public market place would increase substantially and the current holders of class b common stock would own a smaller percentage of that class. in addition, from time-to-time our board of directors approve stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our class b common stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. such repurchases decrease the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. conversely, as a potential means of generating additional funds to operate and expand our business, we may from time-to-time issue equity through the sale of stock which would increase the number of outstanding shares of our class b common stock. based upon factors such as, but not limited to, the market price of our stock, interest rate on borrowings and uses or potential uses for cash, repurchase or issuance of our stock could have a dilutive effect on our future basic and diluted earnings per share. the right to elect the majority of our board of directors and the majority of the general shareholder voting power resides with the holders of class a and c common stock, the majority of which is owned by alan b. miller, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors. our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, with respect to the election of directors, holders of class a common stock vote as a class with the holders of class c common stock, and holders of class b common stock vote as a class with holders of class d common stock, with holders of all classes of our common stock entitled to one vote per share. as of march 19, 2019, the shares of class a and class c common stock constituted 7.9% of the aggregate outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect five members of the board of directors and constituted 87.2% of our general voting power as of that date. as of march 19, 2019, the shares of class b and class d common stock (excluding shares issuable upon exercise of options) constituted 92.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, had the right to elect two members of the board of directors and constituted 12.8% of our general voting power as of that date. as to matters other than the election of directors, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that holders of class a, class b, class c and class d common stock all vote together as a single class, except as otherwise provided by law. each share of class a common stock entitles the holder thereof to one vote each share of class b common stock entitles the holder thereof to one-tenth of a vote each share of class c common stock entitles the holder thereof to 100 votes (provided the holder of class c common stock holds a number of shares of class a common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class c common stock that holder holds) and each share of class d common stock entitles the holder thereof to ten votes (provided the holder of class d common stock holds a number of shares of class b common stock equal to ten times the number of shares of class d common stock that holder holds). in the event a holder of class c or class d common stock holds a number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, less than ten times the number of shares of class c or class d common stock that holder holds, then that holder will be 24 entitled to only one vote for every share of class c common stock, or one-tenth of a vote for every share of class d common stock, which that holder holds in excess of one-tenth the number of shares of class a or class b common stock, respectively, held by that holder. the board of directors, in its discretion, may require beneficial owners to provide satisfactory evidence that such owner holds ten times as many shares of class a or class b common stock as class c or class d common stock, respectively, if such facts are not apparent from our stock records. since a substantial majority of the class a shares and class c shares are controlled by mr. alan b. miller and members of his family, one of whom (marc d. miller) is also a director and officer of our company, and they can elect a majority of our company's directors and effect or reject most actions requiring approval by stockholders without the vote of any other stockholders, there are potential conflicts of interest in overseeing the management of our company. in addition, because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, our business and prospects and the trading price of our securities could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. to manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. we account for our derivative and hedging activities using the financial accounting standard board's guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. for derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ) within shareholders' equity. amounts are reclassified from aoci to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. from time to time, we use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. for hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge's inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. the fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. we assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. we performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2019 and 2018 and determined the hedges to be highly effective. although we do not anticipate nonperformance by our counterparties to interest rate swap agreements, the counterparties expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. during 2015, we entered into nine forward starting interest rate swaps whereby we paid a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $1.0 billion and received one-month libor. the average fixed rate payable on these swaps, all of which matured on april 15, 2019, was 1.31%. although we can provide no assurance that we will ultimately do so, we are currently monitoring the interest rate environment and evaluating the terms of potential replacement interest rate swaps that we may enter into for a large portion, or potentially all, of the $1 billion total notional amount that expired on april 15, 2019. 81 the table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of december 31, 201 9 . for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. maturity date, fiscal year ending december 31 (dollar amounts in thousands) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total long-term debt: fixed rate: debt $ 1,650 $ 1,696 $ 700,266 $ 2,475 $ 2,823 $ 408,005 $ 1,116,915 average interest rates 4.9 % 4.9 % 4.9 % 5.2 % 5.1 % 4.7 % 5.0 % variable rate: debt $ 85,900 $ 454,659 105,000 1,751,150 5,000 465,503 $ 2,867,212 average interest rates 3.2 % 3.2 % 3.2 % 3.2 % 3.6 % 3.6 % 3.3 % as calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2019 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $29 million.