risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements the information on this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under outlook for 2013. these statements use such words as may, will, expect, believe and plan. they reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business and execution of our strategic plan, the plan to win, are subject to risks. the most important of these is whether we can remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment. the ieo segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. the ieo segment has been flat or contracting in many of our markets, including some of our major markets, due to unfavorable global economic conditions, and this environment is expected to continue. persistently high unemployment rates in many of these markets, and declining economic growth rates or recessionary conditions in some of them, have also increased consumer focus on value and heightened pricing sensitivity. combined with pressure on labor and occupancy costs and volatility in commodity prices, as well as aggressive competitive activity, these circumstances affect restaurant sales and are expected to continue to pressure margins during 2013 in all of our geographic segments. we have the added challenge of the cultural and regulatory differences that exist within and among the more than 100 countries where we operate. initiatives we undertake may not have universal appeal among different segments of our customer base and can drive unanticipated changes in guest counts and customer perceptions. our operations, plans and results are also affected by regulatory and similar initiatives around the world, notably the focus on nutritional content and the production, processing and preparation of food from field to front counter, as well as industry marketing practices. these risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales and profits depends largely on how well we execute the plan to win and our global priorities. the plan to win addresses the key drivers of our business and results - people, products, place, price and promotion - and we are focused on our three global priorities that represent the greatest opportunities under our plan to win: optimizing our menu, modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to our brand. the quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to trends or other factors that affect the ieo segment and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, trends in food preparation, consumer preferences and publicity about us, all of which can drive popular perceptions of our business or affect the willingness of other companies to enter into site, supply or other arrangements or alliances with us; the risks associated with our franchise business model, including whether our franchisees and developmental licensees will have the experience and financial resources to be effective operators and remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive initiatives and the potential impact on us if they experience food safety or other operational problems or project a brand image inconsistent with our values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited by law or otherwise, costly to exercise or subject to litigation; the success of our tiered approach to menu offerings and our ability to introduce new offerings, as well as the impact of our competitors' actions, including in response to our menu changes, and our ability to continue robust menu development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; our ability to differentiate the mcdonald's experience in a way that balances consumer value with margin levels, particularly in markets where pricing or cost pressures are significant or have been exacerbated by the current challenging economic and operating environment; the impact of pricing, marketing and promotional plans on sales and margins and our ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly to changing economic and heightened competitive conditions; our ability to drive restaurant improvements that achieve optimal capacity, particularly during peak mealtime hours, and to motivate our restaurant personnel and our franchisees to achieve consistency and high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; whether we can complete our restaurant reimaging and rebuilding plans as projected, and whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of systemwide restaurants, as well as sales and profitability targets; the costs and risks associated with our increasing reliance on information systems (e.g., point-of-sale and other in-store systems or platforms) that support our restaurants and that we make available to franchisees along with related services, including the risk that we will not realize fully the benefits of the significant investments we are making, which are intended to enhance the customer experience; the potential for system failures, programming errors, security breaches involving our systems or those of third-party system operators; legal and tax risks associated with providing these services to franchisees, including those relating to data protection and management; and litigation risk involving intellectual property rights or our rights and obligations to others under related contractual arrangements; the success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires trust and confidence; our ability to respond effectively to adverse perceptions about the quick-service category of the ieo segment or about our food (including its nutritional content and preparation), promotions and premiums, such as happy meal toys (collectively, our "products"), how we source the commodities we use, and our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald's of food-borne illnesses or product safety issues; the impact of campaigns by labor organizations and activists or the use of social media and other mobile communications and applications to promote adverse perceptions of our operations or those of our suppliers, or to promote or mcdonald's corporation 2012 annual report 3 threaten boycotts or other actions involving us or our suppliers; the impact of events such as boycotts or protests, labor strikes and supply chain interruptions (including due to lack of supply or price increases) that can adversely affect us or the vendors, franchisees and others that are also part of the mcdonald's system and whose performance has a material impact on our results; our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel to manage our operations and growth; and our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way. our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, and the prolonged challenging economic environment can be expected to continue to pressure our results. our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, both globally and in local markets, and conditions can also vary substantially by market. the current global environment has been characterized by persistently weak economies, high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and volatility in financial markets. many major economies, both advanced and developing, are also facing significant economic issues. these include, in the u.s., concerns about the federal deficit and the potential adverse effects of the automatic spending cuts that will become effective in early 2013 absent further legislation. the eurozone debt crisis continues to depress consumer and business confidence and spending in many markets. important markets in asia, which have been key drivers of global growth, have been experiencing declining growth rates. uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity. these conditions are adversely affecting sales and/or guest counts in many of our markets, including some of our major markets. to mitigate their impact, we have intensified our focus on value as a driver of guest counts through menu, pricing and promotional actions. these actions have adversely affected our margin percent, and margins will remain under pressure. the key factors that can affect our operations, plans and results in this environment are the following: whether our strategies will be effective in enabling the continued market share gains that we have included in our plans, while at the same time enabling us to achieve our targeted operating income growth despite the current adverse economic conditions, resurgent competitors and a more costly and competitive advertising environment; the effectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and sufficient product supply on favorable terms; the impact on consumer disposable income levels and spending habits of governmental actions to manage national economic matters, whether through austerity or stimulus measures and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, taxation and other economic drivers; the impact on restaurant sales and margins of ongoing commodity price volatility, and the effectiveness of pricing, hedging and other actions taken to address this environment; the impact on our margins of labor costs and the long-term trend toward higher wages and social expenses in both mature and developing markets; the impact of foreign exchange and interest rates on our financial condition and results; the challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment; the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings; the increasing focus on workplace practices and conditions, which may drive changes in practices or in the general commercial and regulatory environment that affect perceptions of our business or our cost of doing business; the impact of changes in our debt levels on our credit ratings, interest expense, availability of acceptable counterparties, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our operating or financial flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants; and the impact of an exit from the eurozone by any of the eu member states, which could entail disruption to our business as the exiting member state establishes a new currency and we, along with our suppliers, franchisees and others, address the challenges associated with redenomination. increasing legal and regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, including the united states and europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. in developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following: the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, especially in the united states where inconsistent standards imposed by local, state and federal authorities can adversely affect popular perceptions of our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings; the impact of new, potential or changing regulations that can affect our business plans, such as those relating to product packaging, marketing and the nutritional content and safety of our food and other products, as well as the risks and costs of our labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given varying legal requirements and practices for testing and disclosure within our industry, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers; the impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation, including taxation, in ways that could be material to our business; the impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions, labor, employment and personal injury claims, franchisee litigation, landlord/tenant disputes and intellectual property claims (including often aggressive or opportunistic attempts to enforce patents used in information technology systems); the relative level of our 4 mcdonald's corporation 2012 annual report defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; the cost and other effects of settlements or judgments, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; and the scope and terms of insurance or indemnification protections that we may have; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition and preparation of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of the effects of climate change, as well as of increased focus by u.s. and overseas governmental and non-governmental organizations on environmental sustainability matters (e.g., climate change, land use, energy and water resources, packaging and waste, and animal health and welfare) and the increased pressure to make commitments or set targets and take actions to meet them, which could expose the company to market, operational and execution costs or risks, particularly when actions are undertaken systemwide; the increasing costs and other effects of compliance with u.s. and overseas regulations affecting our workforce and labor practices, including regulations relating to wage and hour practices, workplace conditions, healthcare, immigration, retirement and other employee benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination; disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or import-export controls, increased tariffs or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors' operations, and the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or proceedings, whether or not they have merit; the legal and compliance risks and costs associated with privacy, consumer data protection and similar laws, particularly as they apply to children, the potential costs (including the loss of consumer confidence) arising from alleged security breaches of our information systems, and the risk of criminal penalties or civil liability to consumers, employees or franchisees whose data is alleged to have been collected or used inappropriately; and the impact of changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or related authoritative interpretations), particularly if corporate tax reform becomes a key component of budgetary initiatives in the united states and elsewhere, and the impact of settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by the irs or other taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. the trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. the most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following: the continuing unfavorable global economic and volatile market conditions; governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the united states which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; changes in financial or tax reporting and accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results and investor perceptions of our performance; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can reflect market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete in some cases) or expectations about our business, our creditworthiness or investor confidence generally; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald's may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average; the impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and the impact on our results of other corporate actions, such as those we may take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure in light of business, legal and tax considerations. our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others. severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels or other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 22 of the form 10-k.risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements the information in this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under outlook. these statements use such words as may, will, expect, believe and plan. they reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business and execution of our strategic plan, the plan to win, are subject to risks. the most important of these is whether we can remain relevant and a brand customers trust. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment. challenging economic conditions continue to pressure our operating and financial performance. in particular, in some of our major markets, ieo segments may remain stagnant or experience modest growth, reflecting broad-based consumer caution, price sensitivity, and intensifying competitive activity by both traditional and non-traditional competitors. further, certain menu, pricing and promotional decisions may continue to yield results below desired levels and could continue to negatively impact sales, guest counts and market share. as our business model is built around growing comparable sales to realize margin leverage, given these conditions and persistent cost pressures, we expect our results for 2014 will remain challenged. we have the added challenge of the cultural and regulatory differences that exist within and among the more than 100 countries where we operate. initiatives we undertake may not have universal appeal among different segments of our customer base and can drive unanticipated changes in guest counts and customer perceptions. our operations, plans and results are also affected by regulatory, tax and other initiatives around the world, notably the focus on nutritional content and the sourcing, processing and preparation of food from field to front counter, as well as industry marketing practices. these risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales and profits depends largely on how well we execute the plan to win and our global growth priorities. the plan to win aligns the mcdonald's system around the three global growth priorities that represent our greatest opportunities to drive results - optimizing our menu, modernizing the customer experience and broadening accessibility to our brand in order to remain relevant to our customers. it also keeps us focused on a common approach to execution through our continued emphasis on people, products, place, price and promotion. the quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to trends or other factors that affect the ieo segment and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, trends in food preparation, consumer preferences and publicity about us, all of which can drive perceptions of our business or affect the willingness of other companies to enter into site, supply or other arrangements with us; our continued innovation in all aspects of the mcdonald's experience to differentiate the mcdonald's experience in a way that balances value with margin levels; the impact of changes to our value menu, which has been and will continue to be an important component of our overall menu strategy; our ability to continue robust menu development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; our ability to adapt our plans to deliver a locally-relevant experience in a highly competitive, value-driven operating environment; our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes across markets; and whether sales gains associated with new product introductions are sustained; the risks associated with our franchise business model, including whether our franchisees have the experience and financial resources to be effective operators and remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive initiatives, especially during periods of underperformance, and the potential impact on us if they experience food safety or other operational problems or project a brand image inconsistent with our values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited, costly to exercise or subject to litigation; the success of our tiered approach to menu offerings; the impact of pricing, product, marketing and promotional plans on sales and margins; and our ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly to changing economic and competitive conditions; our ability to drive restaurant improvements that achieve optimal capacity, particularly during peak mealtime hours, and motivate our restaurant personnel and our franchisees to achieve consistency and high service levels so as to improve perceptions of our ability to meet expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; our plans for restaurant reimaging and rebuilding, and whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of systemwide restaurants and achieve our sales and profitability targets; our ability to respond effectively to adverse perceptions about the quick-service category of the ieo segment or about our food (including its nutritional content and preparation), promotions and premiums, such as happy meal toys (collectively, our "products"), how we source the commodities we use, and our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald's of food-borne illnesses or product safety issues; the success of our sustainability initiatives to support our brand ambition of good food, good people and good neighbor, which will require systemwide coordination and alignment, including with our franchisees, and whether we will be effective in addressing these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that inspires trust and confidence; the costs and risks associated with our increasing reliance on technological and digital systems (e.g., point-of-sale and other in-store systems or platforms) tha t support our systemwide restaurants; the risk that we will not fully realize the benefits of the significant investments we are making to enhance the customer experience; the potential for system performance failures, security breaches involving our systems or those of third-party providers; legal risks associated with data collection, protection and management, in particular as it relates to information we collect when we provide technology-related services to franchisees; and litigation risk involving intellectual property rights; the impact of campaigns by labor organizations and activists, including through the use of social media and other mobile communications and applications, to promote adverse mcdonald's corporation 2013 annual report 3 perceptions of the quick-service category of the ieo segment or our brand, management, suppliers or franchisees, or to promote or threaten boycotts, strikes or other actions involving the industry, mcdonald's or our suppliers and franchisees; the impact of events such as boycotts or protests, labor strikes and supply chain interruptions (including due to lack of supply or price increases) that can adversely affect us or the suppliers, franchisees and others that are also part of the mcdonald's system and whose performance has a material impact on our results; our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel to manage our operations and growth; and whether we will be able to develop an effective and compelling global digital strategy in the future that will enhance customer engagement and whether competitor loyalty initiatives will impact our ability to attract customers, particularly as these initiatives become established and customer acquisition costs (i.e., switching costs) increase. our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, and the prolonged challenging economic environment can be expected to continue to pressure our results. our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, both globally and in local markets, and conditions can also vary substantially by market. the current global environment has been characterized by persistently weak economies, high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and volatility in financial markets. many major economies, both advanced and developing, are still facing ongoing economic issues. in the u.s., these include concerns about the long-term direction of federal fiscal policies. in many european markets, consumer and business confidence and spending remain muted. important markets in asia have also been experiencing slower growth rates. uncertainty about the long-term environment could derail any potential improvements in economic activity for 2014. these conditions have pressured our performance, adversely affecting sales, guest counts and/or our market share in many markets, including some major markets. we are also facing increasing competition from an expanded set of competitors that include many non-traditional market participants such as conventional retailers and coffee shops. to address this environment, we are intensifying our focus on value as a driver of guest counts through menu, pricing and promotional actions. these actions can adversely affect our margin percent and therefore we expect that margins will remain under pressure. the key factors that can affect our operations, plans and results in this environment are the following: whether our strategies will be effective in enabling market share gains, which have been achieved at declining rates in recent periods, while at the same time enabling us to achieve our targeted operating income growth despite the current adverse economic conditions, resurgent competitors and an increasingly complex and costly advertising environment; the effectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and sufficient product supply on favorable terms; the impact on consumer disposable income levels and spending habits of governmental actions to manage national economic matters, whether through austerity or stimulus measures and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, taxation and other economic drivers; the impact on restaurant sales and margins of ongoing commodity price volatility, and the effectiveness of pricing, hedging and other actions taken to address this environment; the impact on our margins of labor costs that we cannot offset through price increases, and the long-term trend toward higher wages and social expenses in both mature and developing markets, which may intensify with increasing public focus on matters of income inequality; the impact of foreign exchange and interest rates on our financial condition and results; the challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment; the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings; and the impact of changes in our debt levels on our credit ratings, interest expense, availability of acceptable counterparties, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our operating or financial flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants. increasing legal and regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks tha t could affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, including the united states and europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. in developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following: the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, including where inconsistent standards imposed by governmental authorities can adversely affect popular perceptions of our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings; the impact of new, potential or changing regulations that can affect our business plans, such as those relating to product packaging, marketing and the nutritional content and safety of our food and other products, as well as the risks and costs of our labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given varying legal requirements and practices for testing and disclosure within our industry, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers; the impact of nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that could be material to our business; the impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions, labor, employment and personal injury claims, litigation with or involving our relationship with franchisees, landlord/tenant disputes and intellectual property claims (including often aggressive or 4 mcdonald's corporation 2013 annual report opportunistic attempts to enforce patents used in information technology systems); the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; the cost and other effects of settlements or judgments, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; and the scope and terms of insurance or indemnification protections that we may have; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition and preparation of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of the effects of climate change, greenhouse gases, energy and water resources, as well as the increased public focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters (e.g., packaging and waste, animal health and welfare and land use) and the increased pressure to make commitments or set targets and take actions to meet them, which could expose the company to market, operational and execution costs or risks, particularly when actions are undertaken systemwide; the increasing focus on workplace practices and conditions and costs and other effects of compliance with u.s. and overseas regulations affecting our workforce and labor practices, including those relating to wage and hour practices, healthcare, immigration, retirement and other employee benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination, and our exposure to reputational and other harm as a result of perceptions about our workplace practices or conditions or those of our franchisees; disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or import-export controls, increased tariffs or government-mandated closure of our or our suppliers' operations, and the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or proceedings, whether or not they have merit; the legal and compliance risks and costs associated with privacy, data protection and similar laws, particularly as they apply to children, the potential costs (including the loss of consumer confidence) arising from alleged security breaches of information systems, and the risk of resulting criminal penalties or civil liability related to such breaches; the impact on our operations of tax and other regulations affecting capital flows, financial markets or financial institutions, which can limit our ability to manage and deploy our liquidity or increase our funding costs; and the impact of changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or related authoritative interpretations), particularly if corporate tax reform becomes a key component of budgetary initiatives in the united states and elsewhere, and the impact of settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by the irs or other taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. the most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following: the continuing unpredictable global economic and market conditions; governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the united states which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; changes in financial or tax reporting and accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results and investor perceptions of our performance; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can be affected by market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete); unauthorized disclosures about our performance, plans or expectations about our business; our actual performance and creditworthiness; investor confidence generally; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald's may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average; the impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and the impact on our results of other corporate actions, such as those we may take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure in light of business, legal and tax considerations. our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others. severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels or other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 21 of the form 10-k.risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements the information in this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under outlook. these statements use such words as may, will, expect, believe and plan. they reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business results are subject to a variety of risks that are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. if we do not successfully design and execute our global growth strategies, we may not be able to increase revenues or market share. to drive future results, our global growth strategies must be effective in achieving market share gains while at the same time delivering operating income growth. our strategies are aligned around the four strategic growth priorities that represent our greatest opportunities to drive results-serving our customers' favorite food and drinks, creating memorable experiences, offering unparalleled convenience, and being a more trusted brand. we focus our system on execution across all of our strategies through a common, integrated approach to people, products, place, price and promotion. whether we successfully execute these strategies depends mainly on our system's ability to: continue to innovate and differentiate in all aspects of the mcdonald's experience in a way that balances value with profitability; reinvest in our restaurants and identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our system's plans for net growth of system-wide restaurants; provide clean and friendly environments that deliver a consistent mcdonald's experience and demonstrate high service levels; drive restaurant improvements that achieve optimal capacity, particularly during peak mealtime hours; and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations. if we are unsuccessful in executing our strategies, or if our strategies do not yield the desired results, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. we face intense competition in our markets, which could hurt our business. we compete primarily in the ieo segment, which is highly competitive. in some of our major markets, ieo segments have remained stagnant in recent periods, have experienced only modest growth or have declined. as a result, we are facing sustained, intense competition from both traditional and other competitors, which include many non-traditional market participants such as convenience stores and coffee shops. in addition, in recent periods we have experienced emerging and growing competition from the fast casual category of restaurants. we expect our environment to continue to be highly competitive and in any particular reporting period our results may be impacted by new actions of our competition, which may have a short- or long-term impact. we compete on the basis of product choice, quality, affordability, service and location. in particular, we believe our ability to compete successfully in the current market environment depends on our ability to improve existing products, develop new products, price our products appropriately, manage the complexity of our restaurant operations and respond effectively to our competitors' actions. recognizing these dependencies, we have intensified our focus in recent periods on strategies to achieve these goals and we will likely continue to modify existing strategies and implement new strategies in the future. there can be no assurance these strategies will be effective, and some strategies may be effective at improving some metrics while adversely affecting other metrics. if we do not anticipate and address evolving consumer preferences, our business could suffer. our continued success depends on our system's ability to anticipate and respond effectively to continuously shifting consumer demographics, trends in food sourcing, food preparation and consumer preferences in the ieo segment. we must continuously adapt to deliver a relevant experience for our customers amidst a highly competitive, value-driven operating environment. over the last year, we have implemented initiatives to address these shifts at a more aggressive pace. there is no assurance that such initiatives will be successful and, if they are not, our financial results could be adversely impacted. mcdonald's corporation 2014 annual report 3 if our pricing, promotional and marketing plans are not effective, our results may be negatively impacted. our results depend on the impact of our pricing, promotional and marketing plans and our system's ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly to economic and competitive conditions. our existing or future pricing strategies and the value proposition they represent will continue to be important components of our overall plan, may not be successful and could negatively impact sales and margins. the promotion of our menu offerings may yield results below desired levels. additionally, we operate in an increasingly complex and costly advertising environment. our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful and we may fail to attract and retain customers. we have increased our emphasis on digital offerings and customer loyalty initiatives, and our success depends in part on whether we can effectively execute such offerings and initiatives in a way that will enhance customer engagement. if our pricing, promotional and marketing plans are not successful, or are not as successful as those of our competitors, our sales, guest counts and market share could decrease. failure to preserve the value and relevance of our brand could have a negative impact on our financial results. to be successful in the future, we believe we must preserve, enhance and leverage the value of our brand. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of factors, including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, our business practices and the manner in which we source the commodities we use. consumer acceptance of our offerings is subject to change for a variety of reasons. for example, nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that affect the ieo segment or perceptions of our brand and could be material to our business. perceptions may also be affected by activist campaigns to promote adverse perceptions of the quick-service category of the ieo segment or our brand and/or our operations, or to promote or threaten specific economic action involving the industry, us, our suppliers or franchisees. if we are unsuccessful in addressing such adverse perceptions, our brand and our financial results may suffer. additionally, the ongoing relevance of our brand may depend on the success of our sustainability initiatives to support our brand ambition of good food, good people and good neighbor, which will require system-wide coordination and alignment. if we are not effective in achieving our stated sustainability goals and addressing these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that inspires trust and confidence, trust in our brand could suffer. in particular, business incidents that erode consumer trust, particularly if such incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. unfavorable general economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results. our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, which can vary significantly by market and can impact consumer disposable income levels and spending habits. economic conditions can also be impacted by a variety of factors including hostilities, epidemics and actions taken by governments to manage national economic matters, whether through austerity or stimulus measures and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, taxation and other economic drivers. many major economies, both advanced and developing, continue to face weak economies, high unemployment rates and other ongoing economic issues. continued adverse economic conditions or adverse changes in economic conditions in our markets could pressure our operating performance, and our business and financial results may suffer. supply chain interruptions may increase costs or reduce revenues. we depend on the effectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and sufficient product supply, including on favorable terms. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of suppliers in countries around the world. supply chain interruptions, including due to lack of supply or price increases, can adversely affect us or the suppliers and franchisees that are also part of our system and whose performance has a significant impact on our results. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including inclement weather, natural disasters, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, disruptions in third party logistics or transportation systems, the inability of our suppliers to obtain credit, or food safety warnings or advisories. if we experience interruptions in our supply chain, our costs could increase and it could limit the availability of products critical to our operations. food safety concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. our ability to increase sales and profits depends on our system's ability to meet expectations for safe food and on our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald's of food-borne illnesses and food or product safety issues that may arise in the future. food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe food products. however, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness, have occurred in the food industry in the past, and could occur in the future. in 2014, food quality issues were discovered at a supplier to mcdonald's and other food companies in china. as a consequence of this issue, results in china, japan and certain other markets were negatively impacted due to lost sales and profitability, including expenses associated with rebuilding customer trust. any future instances of food tampering, food contamination or food-borne illness could adversely affect our brand and reputation as well as our revenues and profits. our franchise business model presents a number of risks. our success relies in part on the financial success and cooperation of our franchisees, yet we have limited influence over their operations. our restaurant margins arise from two sources: company-operated restaurants and franchised restaurants. our franchisees manage their businesses independently, and therefore are responsible for the day-to-day operation of their restaurants. the revenues we realize from franchised restaurants are largely dependent on the ability of our franchisees to grow their sales. our franchisees may not experience sales growth, and our revenues and margins could be negatively affected as a result. if sales trends worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, restaurant closures or delayed or reduced payments to us. our success also depends on the willingness and ability of our independent franchisees to implement major initiatives, which may include financial investment, and to remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive reinvestment plans. the ability of our franchisees to contribute to the achievement of our plans is dependent in large part on the availability of funding at reasonable interest rates and may be negatively impacted by the financial markets in general or by the individual franchisee's creditworthiness. our operating performance could also be negatively affected if our franchisees experience food safety or 4 mcdonald's corporation 2014 annual report other operational problems or project a brand image inconsistent with our values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited, costly to exercise or subject to litigation. if franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our required standards, the brand's image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could hurt our business and operating results. our ownership mix also affects our results and financial condition. the decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. our ability to achieve the benefits of our refranchising strategy, which involves a shift to a greater percentage of franchised restaurants, will depend on various factors, including our ability to identify franchisees that meet our rigorous standards, the performance of our existing franchisees and whether the resulting ownership mix supports our financial objectives. changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. the profitability of our company-owned restaurants depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs, including food, paper, supply, fuel, utilities, distribution and other operating costs. any volatility in certain commodity prices could adversely affect our operating results by impacting restaurant profitability. the commodity market for some of the ingredients we use, such as beef and chicken, is particularly volatile and is subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, international commodity markets, food safety concerns, product recalls, government regulation and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and, in many instances, unpredictable. we can only partially address future price risk through hedging and other activities, and therefore increases in commodity costs could have an adverse impact on our profitability. the global scope of our operations subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business. we face differing cultural, regulatory and economic environments that exist within and among the more than 100 countries where mcdonald's restaurants operate, and our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on our success in these environments. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment, and our global success is partially dependent on our system's ability to leverage operating successes across markets. our initiatives may not have broad appeal with our customer base and could drive unanticipated changes in customer perceptions and guest counts. disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market can also result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or import-export controls, increased tariffs, government-mandated closure of our or our suppliers' operations and asset seizures. the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or actions, whether or not they have merit, may impact our results. our international success depends in part on the effectiveness of our strategies and brand-building initiatives to reduce our exposure to such governmental actions. our results of operations and financial condition are also affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. additionally, we face challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest. for example, our results have been negatively impacted by the ongoing events in the ukraine and russia. such challenges are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment. if we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our international operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. challenges with respect to talent management could harm our business. our success depends in part on our system's ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel to manage our operations. for instance, the trend toward higher wages and social expenses could have a negative impact on the margins of our company-owned restaurants. additionally, economic action, such as boycotts, protests, work stoppages or campaigns by labor organizations, could adversely affect us or the franchisees and suppliers that are also part of the mcdonald's system and whose performance has a material impact on our results. we are also impacted by the costs and other effects of compliance with u.s. and overseas regulations affecting our workforce, which includes our staff and employees working in our company-owned restaurants. these regulations are increasingly focused on wage and hour, healthcare, immigration, retirement and other employee benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination. our potential exposure to reputational and other harm regarding our workplace practices or conditions or those of our independent franchisees or suppliers (or perceptions thereof) could have a negative impact on our business. information technology system failures or interruptions or breaches of our network security may interrupt our operations. we are increasingly reliant on our technological systems (e.g., point-of-sale and other in-store systems or platforms) to conduct our business, and any failure of these systems could significantly impact our operations. despite our implementation of security measures, our technology systems could become vulnerable to damage, disability or failures due to theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events. if these systems were to fail, and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we could experience an interruption in our operations. we may also not fully realize the benefits of the significant investments we are making to enhance the customer experience through digital engagement and social media. furthermore, security breaches involving our systems or those of third party providers may occur, such as unauthorized access, denial of service, computer viruses and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. our information technology systems contain personal, financial and other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees as well as financial, proprietary and other confidential information related to our business. an actual or alleged security breach could result in system disruptions, shutdowns, theft or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. the occurrence of any of these incidents could result in adverse publicity, loss of consumer confidence, reduced sales and profits, and criminal penalties or civil liabilities. increasing regulatory complexity may adversely affect restaurant operations and our financial results. our regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance and similar risks that could affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, including the united states and countries in europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. we are affected by the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, including where inconsistent standards mcdonald's corporation 2014 annual report 5 imposed by multiple governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. our success depends in part on our ability to manage the impact of new, potential or changing regulations that can affect our business plans. these regulations may relate to product packaging, marketing and the nutritional content and safety of our food and other products, labeling and other disclosure practices (particularly given varying requirements and practices for testing and disclosure), ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers. additionally, we are keenly aware of and working to manage the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of the effects of climate change, greenhouse gases, energy and water resources. the increased public focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters (e.g., packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use) and the increased pressure to make commitments, set targets or establish additional goals and take actions to meet them, could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risks. if we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our complex regulatory environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we are subject to increasing legal complexity and could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us. increasing legal complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. we could be subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business, including class actions, administrative proceedings, government investigations, employment and personal injury claims, landlord/tenant disputes, disputes with current or former suppliers, claims by current or former franchisees, and intellectual property claims (including claims that we infringed another party's trademarks, copyrights, or patents). inconsistent standards imposed by governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to litigation. litigation involving our relationship with franchisees and the legal distinction between our franchisees and us for employment law purposes, if determined adversely, could increase costs, negatively impact the business prospects of our franchisees and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. we are also subject to the legal and compliance risks associated with privacy, data collection, protection and management, in particular as it relates to information we collect when we provide technology-related services to franchisees. our operating results could also be affected by the following: the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; the cost and other effects of settlements, judgments or consent decrees, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition and preparation of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; and the scope and terms of insurance or indemnification protections that we may have. a judgment significantly in excess of any applicable insurance coverage could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. further, adverse publicity resulting from these claims may hurt our business. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property or adequately ensure that we are not infringing the intellectual property of others, which could harm the value of the mcdonald's brand and our business. the success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. we rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products. we also license our intellectual property to franchisees and we cannot assure you that they will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property. we have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the united states and certain foreign jurisdictions. the trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries outside of the united states in which we do business or may do business in the future and may never be registered in all of these countries. the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the united states and foreign countries may not be adequate. in addition, the steps we have taken may not adequately ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property of others and third parties may claim infringement by us in the future. in particular, we may be involved in intellectual property claims, including often aggressive or opportunistic attempts to enforce patents used in information technology systems, which might affect our operations and results. any claim of infringement, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, could result in costly litigation and could harm our business. changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives around the world. in particular, we are affected by the impact of changes to tax laws or related authoritative interpretations, particularly if corporate tax reform becomes a key component of budgetary initiatives in the united states and elsewhere. we are also impacted by settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by the irs or other taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. any increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. changes in accounting standards or the recognition of impairment charges may adversely affect our future operations and results. new accounting standards or changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, could affect our future results. we may also be affected by the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings. in assessing the recoverability of our long-lived assets, we consider changes in economic conditions and make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. these estimates are highly subjective and can be significantly impacted by many factors such as global and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, and consumer and demographic trends. if our estimates or underlying assumptions change in the future, we may 6 mcdonald's corporation 2014 annual report be required to record impairment charges. if we experience any such changes, they could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. a decrease in our credit ratings or an increase in our funding costs could adversely affect our profitability. we may be negatively affected by the impact of changes in our debt levels or our results of operations on our credit ratings, interest expense, availability of acceptable counterparties, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our operating or financial flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants. our operations may also be impacted by regulations affecting capital flows, financial markets or financial institutions, which can limit our ability to manage and deploy our liquidity or increase our funding costs. if any of these events were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. the most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following: the continuing unpredictable global economic and market conditions; governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the united states which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can be affected by market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete); unauthorized disclosures about our performance, plans or expectations about our business; our actual performance and creditworthiness; investor confidence generally; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald's may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average; the impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and the impact on our results of other corporate actions, such as those we may take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure in light of business, legal and tax considerations. our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others. severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels or other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 24 of the form 10-k.risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements the information in this report includes forward-looking statements about future events and circumstances and their effects upon revenues, expenses and business opportunities. generally speaking, any statement in this report not based upon historical fact is a forward-looking statement. forward-looking statements can also be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, expect, believe and plan or similar expressions. in particular, statements regarding our plans, strategies, prospects and expectations regarding our business and industry are forward-looking statements. they reflect our expectations, are not guarantees of performance and speak only as of the date of this report. except as required by law, we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business results are subject to a variety of risks, including those that are reflected in the following considerations and factors, as well as elsewhere in our filings with the sec. if any of these considerations or risks materialize, our expectations may change and our performance may be adversely affected. if we do not successfully design and execute our business strategies, we may not be able to increase revenues or market share. to drive future results, our business strategies must be effective in achieving market share gains while at the same time delivering operating income growth. whether we successfully execute these strategies depends mainly on our system's ability to: continue to innovate and differentiate in all aspects of the mcdonald's experience in a way that balances value to our customers with profitability; reinvest in our restaurants and identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our system's plans for net growth of system-wide restaurants; provide clean and friendly environments that deliver a consistent mcdonald's experience and demonstrate high service levels; drive restaurant improvements that achieve optimal capacity, particularly during peak mealtime hours; and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations. if we are delayed or unsuccessful in executing our strategies, or if our strategies do not yield the desired results, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. the implementation of our turnaround plan may intensify the risks we face and may not be successful in driving improved performance. our turnaround plan includes restructuring market segments, optimizing restaurant ownership mix through accelerated refranchising, delivering cost savings and enhancing financial value through increased leverage. implementing those actions will intensify the existing risks we face in our business, including risks associated with franchising and risks associated with our credit ratings. further, if those actions are not successful, take longer to complete than initially projected, or are not executed effectively, our business operations, financial results and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face intense competition in our markets, which could hurt our business. we compete primarily in the informal eating out (ieo) segment, which is highly competitive. we are facing sustained, intense competition from both traditional and other competitors, which include many non-traditional market participants such as convenience stores and coffee shops. in addition, in recent periods we have experienced emerging and growing competition from the fast casual category of restaurants. we expect our environment to continue to be highly competitive and in any particular reporting period our results may be impacted by new actions of our competitors, which may have a short- or long-term impact on our results. we compete on the basis of product choice, quality, affordability, service and location. in particular, we believe our ability to compete successfully in the current market environment depends on our ability to improve existing products, develop new products, price our products appropriately, manage the complexity of our restaurant operations and respond effectively to our mcdonald's corporation 2015 annual report 3 competitors' actions. recognizing these dependencies, we have intensified our focus in recent periods on strategies to achieve these goals, including the turnaround plan described above, and we will likely continue to modify our strategies and implement new strategies in the future. there can be no assurance these strategies will be effective, and some strategies may be effective at improving some metrics while adversely affecting other metrics. if we do not anticipate and address evolving consumer preferences, our business could suffer. our continued success depends on our system's ability to anticipate and respond effectively to continuously shifting consumer demographics, trends in food sourcing, food preparation and consumer preferences in the ieo segment. we must continuously adapt to deliver a relevant experience for our customers amidst a highly competitive, value-driven operating environment. we continue to implement initiatives to address these shifts at an aggressive pace. there is no assurance that these initiatives will be successful and, if they are not, our financial results could be adversely impacted. if our pricing, promotional and marketing plans are not effective, our results may be negatively impacted. our results depend on the impact of our pricing, promotional and marketing plans and our system's ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly to economic and competitive conditions. our existing or future pricing strategies and the value proposition they represent will continue to be important components of our overall plan, may not be successful and could negatively impact sales and margins. the promotion of our menu offerings may yield results below desired levels. additionally, we operate in an increasingly complex and costly advertising environment. our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful and we may fail to attract and retain customers. we have increased our emphasis on digital offerings and customer loyalty initiatives, and our success depends in part on whether we can effectively execute such offerings and initiatives in a way that will enhance customer engagement. if our pricing, promotional and marketing plans are not successful, or are not as successful as those of our competitors, our sales, guest counts and market share could decrease. failure to preserve the value and relevance of our brand could have a negative impact on our financial results. to be successful in the future, we believe we must preserve, enhance and leverage the value of our brand. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of factors, including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, our business practices and the manner in which we source the commodities we use. consumer acceptance of our offerings is subject to change for a variety of reasons. for example, nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that affect the ieo segment or perceptions of our brand and could be material to our business. perceptions may also be affected by third parties presenting or promoting adverse commentary or perceptions of the quick-service category of the ieo segment, our brand and/or our operations, our suppliers or our franchisees. if we are unsuccessful in addressing such adverse commentary or perceptions, our brand and our financial results may suffer. additionally, the ongoing relevance of our brand may depend on the success of our sustainability initiatives to support our brand ambition of good food, good people and good neighbor, which will require system-wide coordination and alignment. if we are not effective in achieving our stated sustainability goals and addressing these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that inspires trust and confidence, trust in our brand could suffer. in particular, business incidents that erode consumer trust, particularly if such incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. unfavorable general economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results. our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, which can vary significantly by market and can impact consumer disposable income levels and spending habits. economic conditions can also be impacted by a variety of factors including hostilities, epidemics and actions taken by governments to manage national economic matters, whether through austerity or stimulus measures and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, taxation and other economic drivers. many major economies, both advanced and developing, continue to face weak economies, high unemployment rates and other ongoing economic issues. continued adverse economic conditions or adverse changes in economic conditions in our markets could pressure our operating performance, and our business and financial results may suffer. supply chain interruptions may increase costs or reduce revenues. we depend on the effectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and sufficient product supply, including on favorable terms. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of suppliers in countries around the world. supply chain interruptions, including due to lack of supply or price increases, can adversely affect us or the suppliers and franchisees that are also part of our system and whose performance has a significant impact on our results. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including inclement weather, natural disasters, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, disruptions in third party logistics or transportation systems, the inability of our suppliers to obtain credit, or food safety warnings or advisories. if we experience interruptions in our supply chain, our costs could increase and it could limit the availability of products critical to our operations. food safety concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. our ability to increase sales and profits depends on our system's ability to meet expectations for safe food and on our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald's of food-borne illnesses and food or product safety issues that may arise in the future. food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe food products. however, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness, have occurred in the food industry in the past, and could occur in the future. in 2014, food quality issues were discovered at a supplier to mcdonald's and other food companies in china. as a consequence of this issue, results in china, japan and certain other markets were negatively impacted due to lost sales and profitability, including expenses associated with rebuilding customer trust. any future instances of food tampering, food contamination or food-borne illness, whether actual or perceived, could adversely affect our brand and reputation as well as our revenues and profits. our franchise business model presents a number of risks. our success relies in part on the financial success and cooperation of our franchisees, yet we have limited influence over their operations. our restaurant margins arise from two sources: 4 mcdonald's corporation 2015 annual report company-operated restaurants and franchised restaurants. our franchisees manage their businesses independently, and therefore are responsible for the day-to-day operation of their restaurants. the revenues we realize from franchised restaurants are largely dependent on the ability of our franchisees to grow their sales. our franchisees may not experience sales growth, and our revenues and margins could be negatively affected as a result. if sales trends worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, restaurant closures or delayed or reduced payments to us. our refranchising effort will increase that dependence and the effect of those factors. our success also depends on the willingness and ability of our independent franchisees to implement major initiatives, which may include financial investment, and to remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive reinvestment plans. the ability of our franchisees to contribute to the achievement of our plans is dependent in large part on the availability of funding at reasonable interest rates and may be negatively impacted by the financial markets in general or by the creditworthiness of our franchisees or the company. our operating performance could also be negatively affected if our franchisees experience food safety or other operational problems or project a brand image inconsistent with our values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited, costly to exercise or subject to litigation. if franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our required standards, the brand's image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could hurt our business and operating results. our ownership mix also affects our results and financial condition. the decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. our ability to achieve the benefits of our refranchising strategy, which involves a shift to a greater percentage of franchised restaurants, in a timely manner or at all, will depend on various factors, including our ability to timely and effectively identify franchisees that meet our rigorous standards, the performance of our existing franchisees, whether the resulting ownership mix supports our financial objectives and our ability to manage risks associated with our refranchising strategy. changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. the profitability of our company-operated restaurants depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs, including food, paper, supply, fuel, utilities, distribution and other operating costs. any volatility in certain commodity prices could adversely affect our operating results by impacting restaurant profitability. the commodity market for some of the ingredients we use, such as beef and chicken, is particularly volatile and is subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, international commodity markets, food safety concerns, product recalls, government regulation and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and, in many instances, unpredictable. we can only partially address future price risk through hedging and other activities, and therefore increases in commodity costs could have an adverse impact on our profitability. the global scope of our business subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business. we face differing cultural, regulatory and economic environments that exist within and among the more than 100 countries where mcdonald's restaurants operate, and our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on our success in these environments. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment, and our global success is partially dependent on our system's ability to leverage operating successes across markets. our initiatives may not have broad appeal with our customer base and could drive unanticipated changes in customer perceptions and guest counts. disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market can also result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or import-export controls, increased tariffs, government-mandated closure of our or our suppliers' operations and asset seizures. the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or actions, whether or not they have merit, may impact our results. our international success depends in part on the effectiveness of our strategies and brand-building initiatives to reduce our exposure to such governmental actions. our results of operations and financial condition are also affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. additionally, we face challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest. such challenges are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment. if we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our international operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. challenges with respect to talent management could harm our business. our success depends in part on our system's ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel to work in our restaurants. increased costs associated with recruiting and retaining such qualified personnel, whether because of the trend toward higher statutory minimum wages and social expenses or because of voluntary increases in wages necessitated by labor market conditions, could have a negative impact on the margins of our company-operated restaurants. additionally, economic action, such as boycotts, protests, work stoppages or campaigns by labor organizations, could adversely affect (including the ability to recruit and retain talent) us or the franchisees and suppliers that are also part of the mcdonald's system and whose performance may have a material impact on our results. we are also impacted by the costs and other effects of compliance with u.s. and international regulations affecting our workforce, which includes our staff and employees working in our company-operated restaurants. these regulations are increasingly focused on employment issues including wage and hour, healthcare, immigration, retirement and other employee benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination. our potential exposure to reputational and other harm regarding our workplace practices or conditions or those of our independent franchisees or suppliers (or perceptions thereof) could have a negative impact on our business. information technology system failures or interruptions or breaches of network security may interrupt our operations. we are increasingly reliant on technological systems (e.g., point-of-sale and other in-store systems or platforms) to conduct our business, including technology-enabled solutions provided to us by third parties; and any failure of these systems could significantly impact our operations and customer perceptions. despite the implementation of security measures, those technology systems and solutions could become vulnerable to damage, disability or failures due to theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events. the third mcdonald's corporation 2015 annual report 5 party solutions also present the risks faced by the third party's business. if those systems or solutions were to fail or otherwise be unavailable, and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we could experience an interruption in our operations. we may also not fully realize the benefits of the significant investments we are making to enhance the customer experience through digital engagement and social media. furthermore, security breaches involving our systems or those of third party providers may occur, such as unauthorized access, denial of service, computer viruses and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. our information technology systems contain personal, financial and other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees as well as financial, proprietary and other confidential information related to our business. an actual or alleged security breach could result in system disruptions, shutdowns, theft or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. the occurrence of any of these incidents could result in adverse publicity, loss of consumer confidence, reduced sales and profits, and criminal penalties or civil liabilities. increasing regulatory complexity may adversely affect restaurant operations and our financial results. our regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance and similar risks that could affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, including the united states and countries in europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. we are affected by the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, including where inconsistent standards imposed by multiple governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. our success depends in part on our ability to manage the impact of new, potential or changing regulations that can affect our business plans. these regulations may relate to, among others, product packaging, marketing and the nutritional content and safety of our food and other products, labeling and other disclosure practices, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers (particularly given varying requirements and practices for testing and disclosure). additionally, we are keenly aware of and working to manage the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of the effects of climate change, greenhouse gases, energy and water resources. the increased public focus, including by governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters (e.g., packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use) and the increased pressure to make commitments, set targets or establish additional goals and take actions to meet them, could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risks. if we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our complex regulatory environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we are subject to increasing legal complexity and could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us. increasing legal complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. we could be subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business, including class actions, administrative proceedings, government investigations, employment and personal injury claims, landlord/tenant disputes, disputes with current or former suppliers, claims by current or former franchisees, and intellectual property claims (including claims that we infringed another party's trademarks, copyrights, or patents). inconsistent standards imposed by governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to litigation. litigation involving our relationship with franchisees and the legal distinction between our franchisees and us for employment law purposes, if determined adversely, could increase costs, negatively impact the business prospects of our franchisees and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. similarly, although our commercial relationships with our suppliers remain independent, there may be attempts to challenge that independence, which, if determined adversely, could also increase costs, negatively impact the business prospects of our suppliers, and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. we are also subject to the legal and compliance risks associated with privacy, data collection, protection and management, in particular as it relates to information we collect when we provide optional technology-related services to franchisees. our operating results could also be affected by the following: the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; the cost and other effects of settlements, judgments or consent decrees, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition and preparation of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; and the scope and terms of insurance or indemnification protections that we may have. a judgment significantly in excess of any applicable insurance coverage could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. further, adverse publicity resulting from these claims may hurt our business. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property or adequately ensure that we are not infringing the intellectual property of others, which could harm the value of the mcdonald's brand and our business. the success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. we rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products. we also license our intellectual property to franchisees and other third parties and we cannot assure you that they will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property. we have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the united states and certain foreign jurisdictions. the trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries outside of the united states in which we do business or may do business in the future and may never be registered in all of these countries. the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the united states and foreign countries may not be adequate. in addition, the steps we have taken may not adequately ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property of others and third parties may claim infringement by us in the future. in particular, we may be involved in intellectual property claims, including often aggressive or opportunistic attempts to enforce patents used in information technology systems, which might affect our operations and results. any claim of infringement, whether or not it has merit, could be 6 mcdonald's corporation 2015 annual report time-consuming, could result in costly litigation and could harm our business. changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives around the world. in particular, we are affected by the impact of changes to tax laws or related authoritative interpretations, particularly if corporate tax reform becomes a key component of budgetary initiatives in the united states and elsewhere. we are also impacted by settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by the irs or other taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. any increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. changes in accounting standards or the recognition of impairment or other charges may adversely affect our future operations and results. new accounting standards or changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, could adversely affect our future results. we may also be affected by the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment or other charges that reduce our earnings. in assessing the recoverability of our long-lived assets, we consider changes in economic conditions and make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. these estimates are highly subjective and can be significantly impacted by many factors such as global and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, and consumer and demographic trends. if our estimates or underlying assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. if we experience any such changes, they could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results for the affected periods. a decrease in our credit ratings or an increase in our funding costs could adversely affect our profitability. we may be negatively affected by the impact of changes in our debt levels or our results of operations on our credit ratings, interest expense, availability of acceptable counterparties, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our operating or financial flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants. in particular, our credit rating was lowered as a result of our decision to increase our leverage and the pace of the return of cash to our shareholders. our operations may also be impacted by regulations affecting capital flows, financial markets or financial institutions, which can limit our ability to manage and deploy our liquidity or increase our funding costs. if any of these events were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. trading volatility and price of our common stock may be adversely affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. the most important of these factors, some of which are outside our control, are the following: the continuing unpredictable global economic and market conditions; governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the united states which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can be affected by market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete); unauthorized disclosures about our performance, plans or expectations about our business; our actual performance and creditworthiness; investor confidence generally; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald's may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average; the impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and the impact on our results of corporate actions and market and third-party perceptions and assessments of such actions, such as those we may take from time to time as we review our corporate structure and strategies in light of business, legal and tax considerations. our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others. severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels or other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 24 of the form 10-k.risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements the information in this report includes forward-looking statements about future events and circumstances and their effects upon revenues, expenses and business opportunities. generally speaking, any statement in this report not based upon historical fact is a forward-looking statement. forward-looking statements can also be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, expect, believe and plan or similar expressions. in particular, statements regarding our plans, strategies, prospects and expectations regarding our business and industry are forward-looking statements. they reflect our expectations, are not guarantees of performance and speak only as of the date of this report. except as required by law, we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business results are subject to a variety of risks, including those that are reflected in the following considerations and factors, as well as elsewhere in our filings with the sec. if any of these considerations or risks materialize, our expectations may change and our performance may be adversely affected. if we do not successfully design and execute against our new business strategies within our new organization structure, we may not be able to increase operating income or market share. to drive future results, we must design business strategies that are effective in delivering operating income growth. whether these strategies are successful depends mainly on our system's ability to: continue to innovate and differentiate the mcdonald's experience in a way that balances value and convenience to our customers with profitability; reinvest in our restaurants and identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of systemwide restaurants; provide clean and friendly environments that deliver a consistent mcdonald's experience and demonstrate high service levels; drive restaurant improvements that achieve optimal capacity, particularly during peak mealtime hours; and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations. if we are delayed or unsuccessful in executing our strategies, or if our strategies do not yield the desired results, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. the implementation of our turnaround plan may intensify the risks we face and may not be successful in achieving improved performance. our turnaround plan includes an accelerated pace of refranchising, cost savings initiatives and global restructuring. as we continue to implement our plans, the existing risks we face in our business may be intensified. our efforts to reduce costs and capital expenditures depend, in part, upon our refranchising efforts, which, in turn, depend upon our ability to select qualified and capable franchisees and licensees. our cost savings initiatives also depend upon our ability to achieve efficiencies through the consolidation of global, back-office functions. therefore, if our turnaround-related initiatives are not successful, take longer to complete than initially projected, or are not well executed, or if our cost reduction efforts adversely impact our effectiveness, our business operations, financial results and results of operations could be adversely affected. our investments to enhance the customer experience, including through technology, may not generate the expected returns. we will continue to build upon our investments in experience of the future ( eotf ), which focus on restaurant modernization and technology and digital engagement in order to transform the restaurant experience. as we accelerate our pace of converting restaurants to eotf, we are placing renewed emphasis on our improving our service model and strengthening relationships with customers, in part through digital channels and loyalty initiatives. we may not fully realize the intended benefits of these significant investments and therefore our business results may suffer. mcdonald's corporation 2016 annual report 3 we face intense competition in our markets, which could hurt our business. we compete primarily in the informal eating out (ieo) segment, which is highly competitive. we are facing sluggish restaurant industry trends in several key markets, including the u.s. we also face sustained, intense competition from traditional, fast casual and other competitors, which may include many non-traditional market participants such as convenience stores, grocery stores and coffee shops. we expect our environment to continue to be highly competitive, and our results in any particular reporting period may be impacted by new or continuing actions of our competitors, which may have a short- or long-term impact on our results. we compete on the basis of product choice, quality, affordability, service and location. in particular, we believe our ability to compete successfully in the current market environment depends on our ability to improve existing products, develop new products, price our products appropriately, deliver a relevant customer experience, manage the complexity of our restaurant operations and respond effectively to our competitors' actions. recognizing these dependencies, we have intensified our focus in recent periods on strategies to achieve these goals, including the turnaround plan described above, and we will likely continue to modify our strategies and implement new strategies in the future. there can be no assurance these strategies will be effective, and some strategies may be effective at improving some metrics while adversely affecting other metrics. if we do not anticipate and address evolving consumer preferences, our business could suffer. our continued success depends on our system's ability to anticipate and respond effectively to continuously shifting consumer demographics, and trends in food sourcing, food preparation and consumer preferences in the ieo segment. in order to deliver a relevant experience for our customers amidst a highly competitive, value-driven operating environment, we must implement initiatives to adapt at an aggressive pace. there is no assurance that these initiatives will be successful and, if they are not, our financial results could be adversely impacted. if pricing, promotional and marketing plans are not effective, our results may be negatively impacted. our results depend on the impact of pricing, promotional and marketing plans across the system, and the ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly and effectively to evolving customer preferences, as well as shifting economic and competitive conditions. existing or future pricing strategies, and the value proposition they represent, are expected to continue to be important components of our business strategy; however, they may not be successful and could negatively impact sales and margins. further, the promotion of menu offerings may yield results below the desired levels. additionally, we operate in a complex and costly advertising environment. our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful, and we may fail to attract and retain customers. our success depends in part on whether the allocation of our advertising and marketing resources across different channels allows us to reach our customers effectively. if the advertising and marketing programs are not successful, or are not as successful as those of our competitors, our sales, guest counts and market share could decrease. failure to preserve the value and relevance of our brand could have a negative impact on our financial results. to be successful in the future, we believe we must preserve, enhance and leverage the value of our brand. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions. those perceptions are affected by a variety of factors, including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, the ingredients we use, our business practices and the manner in which we source the commodities we use. consumer acceptance of our offerings is subject to change for a variety of reasons, and some changes can occur rapidly. for example, nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and may have contradictory implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that affect the ieo segment or perceptions of our brand generally or relative to available alternatives. consumer perceptions may also be affected by third parties presenting or promoting adverse commentary or portrayals of the quick-service category of the ieo segment, our brand and/or our operations, our suppliers or our franchisees. if we are unsuccessful in addressing such adverse commentary or portrayals, our brand and our financial results may suffer. additionally, the ongoing relevance of our brand may depend on the success of our sustainability initiatives, which require system-wide coordination and alignment. if we are not effective in addressing social responsibility matters or achieving relevant sustainability goals, consumer trust in our brand may suffer. in particular, business incidents that erode consumer trust or confidence, particularly if such incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. unfavorable general economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results. our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, which can vary significantly by market and can impact consumer disposable income levels and spending habits. economic conditions can also be impacted by a variety of factors including hostilities, epidemics and actions taken by governments to manage national and international economic matters, whether through austerity or stimulus measures or trade measures, and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, taxation and other economic drivers. continued adverse economic conditions or adverse changes in economic conditions in our markets could pressure our operating performance, and our business and financial results may suffer. our results of operations are also affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. supply chain interruptions may increase costs or reduce revenues. we depend on the effectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and sufficient product supply, including on favorable terms. although many of the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of suppliers in countries around the world, certain products have limited suppliers, which may increase our reliance on those suppliers. supply chain interruptions, including shortages and transportation issues, and price increases can adversely affect us as well as our suppliers and franchisees whose performance may have a significant impact on our results. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers, franchisees or us. if we experience interruptions in our system's supply chain, our costs could increase and it could limit the availability of products critical to our system's operations. 4 mcdonald's corporation 2016 annual report food safety concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. our ability to increase sales and profits depends on our system's ability to meet expectations for safe food and on our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald's of food-borne illnesses and food or product safety issues that may arise in the future. food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe food products, including as our menu evolves. however, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness, have occurred in the food industry in the past, and could occur in the future. instances of food tampering, food contamination or food-borne illness, whether actual or perceived, could adversely affect our brand and reputation as well as our revenues and profits. our franchise business model presents a number of risks. our success increasingly relies on the financial success and cooperation of our franchisees, yet we have limited influence over their operations. our restaurant margins arise from two sources: fees from franchised restaurants (e.g., rent and royalties based on a percentage of sales) and, to a lesser degree, sales from company-operated restaurants. our franchisees manage their businesses independently, and therefore are responsible for the day-to-day operation of their restaurants. the revenues we realize from franchised restaurants are largely dependent on the ability of our franchisees to grow their sales. if our franchisees do not experience sales growth, our revenues and margins could be negatively affected as a result. also, if sales trends worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, restaurant closures or delayed or reduced payments to us. our refranchising effort will increase that dependence and the effect of those factors. our success also increasingly depends on the willingness and ability of our independent franchisees to implement major initiatives, which may include financial investment, and to remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive reinvestment plans. franchisees' ability to contribute to the achievement of our plans is dependent in large part on the availability to them of funding at reasonable interest rates and may be negatively impacted by the financial markets in general or by the creditworthiness of our franchisees or the company. our operating performance could also be negatively affected if our franchisees experience food safety or other operational problems or project an image inconsistent with our brand and values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited, costly to exercise or subjected to litigation. if franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our required standards, the brand's image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could hurt our business and operating results. our ownership mix also affects our results and financial condition. the decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. our ability to achieve the benefits of our refranchising strategy, which involves a shift to a greater percentage of franchised restaurants, in a timely manner or at all, will depend on various factors, including our ability to timely and effectively select franchisees and/or licensees that meet our rigorous standards and/or to complete transactions on favorable terms and to manage associated risks. it will also depend on the performance of our franchisees, and whether the resulting ownership mix supports our financial objectives. challenges with respect to talent management could harm our business. effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. failure effectively to identify, develop and retain key personnel, recruit high-quality candidates and ensure smooth management and personnel transitions could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results. our success depends in part on our system's ability to recruit, motivate and retain a qualified workforce to work in our restaurants in an intensely competitive environment. increased costs associated with recruiting, motivating and retaining qualified employees to work in our company-operated restaurants could have a negative impact on our company-operated margins. similar concerns apply to our franchisees. we are also impacted by the costs and other effects of compliance with u.s. and international regulations affecting our workforce, which includes our staff and employees working in our company-operated restaurants. these regulations are increasingly focused on employment issues, including wage and hour, healthcare, immigration, retirement and other employee benefits and workplace practices. our potential exposure to reputational and other harm regarding our workplace practices or conditions or those of our independent franchisees or suppliers (or perceptions thereof) could have a negative impact on consumer perceptions of us and our business. additionally, economic action, such as boycotts, protests, work stoppages or campaigns by labor organizations, could adversely affect us (including our ability to recruit and retain talent) or the franchisees and suppliers that are also part of the mcdonald's system and whose performance may have a material impact on our results. changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. the profitability of our company-operated restaurants depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs, including food, paper, supply, fuel, utilities, distribution and other operating costs. any volatility in certain commodity prices could adversely affect our operating results by impacting restaurant profitability. the commodity markets for some of the ingredients we use, such as beef and chicken, are particularly volatile due to factors such as seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, international commodity markets, food safety concerns, product recalls and government regulation, all of which are beyond our control and, in many instances, unpredictable. we can only partially address future price risk through hedging and other activities, and therefore increases in commodity costs could have an adverse impact on our profitability. the global scope of our business subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business. we encounter differing cultural, regulatory and economic environments within and among the more than 100 countries where mcdonald's restaurants operate, and our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on the system's success in these environments. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment, and our global success is partially dependent on our system's ability to leverage operating successes across markets. planned initiatives may not have appeal across multiple markets with mcdonald's customers and could drive unanticipated changes in customer perceptions and guest counts. disruptions in operations or price volatility in a market can also result from governmental actions, such as price, mcdonald's corporation 2016 annual report 5 foreign exchange or changes in trade-related tariffs or controls, government-mandated closure of our, our franchisees' or our suppliers' operations, and asset seizures. the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or inquiries, whether or not they have merit, may impact our results and could cause reputational or other harm. our international success depends in part on the effectiveness of our strategies and brand-building initiatives to reduce our exposure to such governmental investigations or inquiries. additionally, challenges and uncertainties are associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest. such challenges may be exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment. an inability to manage effectively the risks associated with our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we may also face challenges and uncertainties in developed markets. for example, as a result of the u.k.'s decision to leave the european union through a negotiated exit over a period of time, it is possible that there will be increased regulatory complexities, as well as potential referenda in the u.k. and/or other european countries, that could cause uncertainty in european or worldwide economic conditions. in the short term, the decision created volatility in certain foreign currency exchange rates, and the resulting depression in those exchange rates may continue. any of these effects, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives around the world. in particular, we are affected by the impact of changes to tax laws or policy or related authoritative interpretations, including to the extent that corporate tax reform becomes a key component of budgetary initiatives in the united states or elsewhere. we are also impacted by settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by taxing authorities outside of the u.s. or the irs in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. any increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. information technology system failures or interruptions or breaches of network security may interrupt our operations. we are increasingly reliant on technological systems, such as point-of-sale and other in-store systems or platforms, as well as technologies that facilitate communication and collaboration internally, with affiliated entities, or with independent third parties to conduct our business, including technology-enabled solutions provided to us by third parties. any failure of these systems could significantly impact our operations and customer perceptions. despite the implementation of security measures, those technology systems and solutions could become vulnerable to damage, disability or failures due to theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events. the third party solutions also present the risks faced by the third party's business. if those systems or solutions were to fail or otherwise be unavailable, and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we could experience an interruption in our operations. furthermore, security breaches involving our systems, the systems of the parties we communicate or collaborate with, or those of third party providers may occur, such as unauthorized access, denial of service, computer viruses and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. our information technology systems contain personal, financial and other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees as well as financial, proprietary and other confidential information related to our business. an actual or alleged security breach could result in system disruptions, shutdowns, theft or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. the occurrence of any of these incidents could result in adverse publicity, loss of consumer confidence, reduced sales and profits, and criminal penalties or civil liabilities. increasing regulatory complexity may adversely affect restaurant operations and our financial results. our regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance and similar risks that could affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. we are affected by the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, including where inconsistent standards imposed by multiple governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. our success depends in part on our ability to manage the impact of new, potential or changing regulations that can affect our business plans and operations. these regulations include product packaging, marketing, the nutritional content and safety of our food and other products, labeling and other disclosure practices; and compliance efforts may be affected by ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers (particularly given varying requirements and practices for testing and disclosure). additionally, we are working to manage the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of the effects of climate change, greenhouse gases, and diminishing energy and water resources. these risks include the increased public focus, including by governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters, such as packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use. these risks also include the increased pressure to make commitments, set targets or establish additional goals and take actions to meet them. these risks could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risks. if we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our complex regulatory environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we are subject to increasing legal complexity and could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us. increasing legal complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. we could be subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business, including class actions, administrative proceedings, government investigations, employment and personal injury claims, landlord/tenant disputes, disputes with current or former suppliers, claims by current or former franchisees and intellectual property claims (including claims that we infringed another party's trademarks, copyrights or patents). 6 mcdonald's corporation 2016 annual report inconsistent standards imposed by governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to regulatory proceedings or litigation. litigation involving our relationship with franchisees and the legal distinction between our franchisees and us for employment law purposes, if determined adversely, could increase costs, negatively impact the business prospects of our franchisees and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. similarly, although our commercial relationships with our suppliers remain independent, there may be attempts to challenge that independence, which, if determined adversely, could also increase costs, negatively impact the business prospects of our suppliers, and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. we are also subject to legal and compliance risks and associated liability, such as in the areas of privacy and data collection, protection and management, as it relates to information we collect and share when we provide optional technology-related services and platforms to third parties. our operating results could also be affected by the following: the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; the cost and other effects of settlements, judgments or consent decrees, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition and preparation of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; and the scope and terms of insurance or indemnification protections that we may have. a judgment significantly in excess of any applicable insurance coverage or third party indemnity could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. further, adverse publicity resulting from these claims may hurt our business. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property or adequately ensure that we are not infringing the intellectual property of others, which could harm the value of the mcdonald's brand and our business. the success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. we rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products. we have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the united states and certain foreign jurisdictions. the trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries outside of the united states in which we do business or may do business in the future and may never be registered in all of these countries. the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the united states and foreign countries may not be adequate. in addition, the steps we have taken may not adequately ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property of others, and third parties may claim infringement by us in the future. in particular, we may be involved in intellectual property claims, including often aggressive or opportunistic attempts to enforce patents used in information technology systems, which might affect our operations and results. any claim of infringement, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and harm our business. we cannot ensure that franchisees and other third parties who hold licenses to our intellectual property will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property. changes in accounting standards or the recognition of impairment or other charges may adversely affect our future operations and results. new accounting standards or changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, could adversely affect our future results. we may also be affected by the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment or other charges that reduce our earnings. in assessing the recoverability of our long-lived assets, we consider changes in economic conditions and make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. these estimates are highly subjective and can be significantly impacted by many factors such as global and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, consumer and demographic trends, and our restructuring activities. if our estimates or underlying assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. if we experience any such changes, they could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results for the affected periods. a decrease in our credit ratings or an increase in our funding costs could adversely affect our profitability. our credit ratings may be negatively affected by our results of operations or changes in our debt levels. as a result, our interest expense, the availability of acceptable counterparties, our ability to obtain funding on favorable terms, collateral requirements and our operating or financial flexibility could all be negatively affected, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants. our operations may also be impacted by regulations affecting capital flows, financial markets or financial institutions, which can limit our ability to manage and deploy our liquidity or increase our funding costs. if any of these events were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. trading volatility and price of our common stock may be adversely affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. the most important of these factors, some of which are outside our control, are the following: the continuing unpredictable global economic and market conditions; governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the united states, which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can be affected by market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete); unauthorized disclosures about our performance, plans or expectations about our business; our actual performance and creditworthiness; investor confidence, driven in part by expectations about our mcdonald's corporation 2016 annual report 7 performance; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald's may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average; the impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and the impact on our results of corporate actions and market and third-party perceptions and assessments of such actions, such as those we may take from time to time as we implement our strategies in light of changing business, legal and tax considerations and evolve our corporate structure. our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others. severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels and supply availability and costs, as well as the local operations in impacted markets, all of which can affect our results and prospects. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to some of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to cover our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 24 of the form 10-k.risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements the information in this report includes forward-looking statements about future events and circumstances and their effects upon revenues, expenses and business opportunities. generally speaking, any statement in this report not based upon historical fact is a forward-looking statement. forward-looking statements can also be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, expect, believe, anticipate and plan or similar expressions. in particular, statements regarding our plans, strategies, prospects and expectations regarding our business and industry, including those under "outlook", are forward-looking statements. they reflect our expectations, are not guarantees of performance and speak only as of the date of this report. except as required by law, we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business results are subject to a variety of risks, including those that are reflected in the following considerations and factors, as well as elsewhere in our filings with the sec. if any of these considerations or risks materialize, our expectations may change and our performance may be adversely affected. if we do not successfully evolve and execute against our business strategies, we may not be able to increase operating income. to drive future results, our business strategies must be effective in delivering increased guest counts to drive operating income growth. whether these strategies are successful depends mainly on our system's ability to: continue to innovate and differentiate the mcdonald's experience by preparing and serving our food in a way that balances value and convenience to our customers with profitability; capitalize on our global scale, iconic brand and local market presence to enhance our ability to retain, regain and convert key customer groups; utilize our more adaptive organizational structure to execute against our initiatives at an accelerated pace; strengthen customer appeal and augment our digital initiatives, including mobile ordering and delivery, along with experience of the future ( eotf ), particularly in the u.s.; identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of systemwide restaurants; and operate restaurants with high service levels and optimal capacity while managing the increasing complexity of our restaurant operations. if we are delayed or unsuccessful in executing our strategies, or if our strategies do not yield the desired results, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our investments to enhance the customer experience, including through technology, may not generate the expected returns. we will continue to build upon our investments in eotf, which focus on restaurant modernization and technology and digital engagement in order to transform the restaurant experience. as we accelerate our pace of converting restaurants to eotf, we are placing renewed emphasis on improving our service model and strengthening relationships with customers, in part through digital channels and loyalty initiatives, as well as mobile ordering and payment systems. we also continue to build on delivery initiatives, which may not generate expected returns. we may not fully realize the intended benefits of these significant investments, or these initiatives may not be well executed, and therefore our business results may suffer. if we do not anticipate and address evolving consumer preferences, our business could suffer. our continued success depends on our system's ability to anticipate and respond effectively to continuously shifting consumer demographics, and trends in food sourcing, food preparation, food offerings and consumer preferences in the informal eating out ieo segment. in order to deliver a relevant experience for our customers amidst a highly competitive, value-driven operating environment, we must implement initiatives to adapt at an aggressive pace. there is no assurance mcdonald's corporation 2017 annual report 3 that these initiatives will be successful and, if they are not, our financial results could be adversely impacted. activities relating to our refranchising and cost savings initiatives remain ongoing and entail various risks. our previously announced refranchising and cost saving initiatives remain ongoing. as we continue on those initiatives, the existing risks we face in our business may be intensified. our efforts to reduce costs and capital expenditures depend, in part, upon our refranchising efforts, which, in turn, depend upon our selection and integration of capable third parties. our cost savings initiatives also depend upon a variety of factors, including our ability to achieve efficiencies through the consolidation of global, back-office functions. if these various initiatives are not successful, take longer to complete than initially projected, or are not well executed, or if our cost reduction efforts adversely impact our effectiveness, our business operations, financial results and results of operations could be adversely affected. if pricing, promotional and marketing plans are not effective, our results may be negatively impacted. our results depend on the impact of pricing, promotional and marketing plans across the system, and the ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly and effectively to evolving customer preferences, as well as shifting economic and competitive conditions. existing or future pricing strategies, and the value proposition they represent, are expected to continue to be important components of our business strategy; however, they may not be successful and could negatively impact sales and margins. further, the promotion of menu offerings may yield results below the desired levels. additionally, we operate in a complex and costly advertising environment. our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful, and we may fail to attract and retain customers. our success depends in part on whether the allocation of our advertising and marketing resources across different channels allows us to reach our customers effectively. if the advertising and marketing programs are not successful, or are not as successful as those of our competitors, our sales, guest counts and market share could decrease. failure to preserve the value and relevance of our brand could have an adverse impact on our financial results. to be successful in the future, we believe we must preserve, enhance and leverage the value of our brand. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions. those perceptions are affected by a variety of factors, including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, the ingredients we use, our business practices and the manner in which we source the commodities we use. consumer acceptance of our offerings is subject to change for a variety of reasons, and some changes can occur rapidly. for example, nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and may have contradictory implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that affect the ieo segment or perceptions of our brand generally or relative to available alternatives. consumer perceptions may also be affected by third parties presenting or promoting adverse commentary or portrayals of the quick-service category of the ieo segment, our brand and/or our operations, our suppliers or our franchisees. if we are unsuccessful in addressing such adverse commentary or portrayals, our brand and our financial results may suffer. additionally, the ongoing relevance of our brand may depend on the success of our sustainability initiatives, which require system-wide coordination and alignment. if we are not effective in addressing social responsibility matters or achieving relevant sustainability goals, consumer trust in our brand may suffer. in particular, business incidents or practices that erode consumer trust or confidence, particularly if such incidents or practices receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. we face intense competition in our markets, which could hurt our business. we compete primarily in the ieo segment, which is highly competitive. we also face sustained, intense competition from traditional, fast casual and other competitors, which may include many non-traditional market participants such as convenience stores, grocery stores and coffee shops. we expect our environment to continue to be highly competitive, and our results in any particular reporting period may be impacted by new or continuing actions of our competitors, which may have a short- or long-term impact on our results. we compete on the basis of product choice, quality, affordability, service and location. in particular, we believe our ability to compete successfully in the current market environment depends on our ability to improve existing products, develop new products, price our products appropriately, deliver a relevant customer experience, manage the complexity of our restaurant operations and respond effectively to our competitors' actions or disruptive actions from others which we do not foresee. recognizing these dependencies, we have intensified our focus in recent periods on strategies to achieve these goals, and we will likely continue to modify our strategies and implement new strategies in the future. there can be no assurance these strategies will be effective, and some strategies may be effective at improving some metrics while adversely affecting other metrics. unfavorable general economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results. our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, which can vary significantly by market and can impact consumer disposable income levels and spending habits. economic conditions can also be impacted by a variety of factors including hostilities, epidemics and actions taken by governments to manage national and international economic matters, whether through austerity, stimulus measures or trade measures, and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, taxation and other economic drivers. continued adverse economic conditions or adverse changes in economic conditions in our markets could pressure our operating performance, and our business and financial results may suffer. our results of operations are also affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. supply chain interruptions may increase costs or reduce revenues. we depend on the effectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and sufficient product supply, including on favorable terms. although many of the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of suppliers in countries around the world, certain products have limited suppliers, which may increase our reliance on those suppliers. supply chain interruptions, including shortages and transportation issues, and price increases can adversely affect us as well as our suppliers and franchisees whose performance may have a significant impact on our results. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers, 4 mcdonald's corporation 2017 annual report franchisees or us. if we experience interruptions in our system's supply chain, our costs could increase and it could limit the availability of products critical to our system's operations. food safety concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. our ability to increase sales and profits depends on our system's ability to meet expectations for safe food and on our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald's of food-borne illnesses and food or product safety issues that may arise in the future. food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe food products, including as our menu and service model evolve. however, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness, have occurred in the food industry in the past, and could occur in the future. instances of food tampering, food contamination or food-borne illness, whether actual or perceived, could adversely affect our brand and reputation as well as our revenues and profits. our franchise business model presents a number of risks. our success increasingly relies on the financial success and cooperation of our franchisees, including our developmental licensees and affiliates, yet we have limited influence over their operations. our restaurant margins arise from two sources: fees from franchised restaurants (e.g., rent and royalties based on a percentage of sales) and, to a lesser degree, sales from company-operated restaurants. our franchisees manage their businesses independently, and therefore are responsible for the day-to-day operation of their restaurants. the revenues we realize from franchised restaurants are largely dependent on the ability of our franchisees to grow their sales. if our franchisees do not experience sales growth, our revenues and margins could be negatively affected as a result. also, if sales trends worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, restaurant closures, or delayed or reduced payments to us. our refranchising efforts will continue to increase that dependence and the potential effect of those factors. our success also increasingly depends on the willingness and ability of our independent franchisees and affiliates to implement major initiatives, which may include financial investment, and to remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive reinvestment plans. franchisees' ability to contribute to the achievement of our plans is dependent in large part on the availability to them of funding at reasonable interest rates and may be negatively impacted by the financial markets in general or by the creditworthiness of our franchisees or the company. our operating performance could also be negatively affected if our franchisees experience food safety or other operational problems or project an image inconsistent with our brand and values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited, costly to exercise or subjected to litigation and potential delays. if franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our required standards, our brand's image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could hurt our business and operating results. our ownership mix also affects our results and financial condition. the decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. our ability to achieve the benefits of our refranchising strategy, which involves a significant percentage of franchised restaurants, including an increased number of restaurants run by developmental licensees and affiliates, depends on various factors. those factors include whether we have effectively selected franchisees, licensees and/or affiliates that meet our rigorous standards, and whether their performance and the resulting ownership mix supports our brand and financial objectives. challenges with respect to talent management could harm our business. effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. failure to effectively identify, develop and retain key personnel, recruit high-quality candidates and ensure smooth management and personnel transitions could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results. our success depends in part on our system's ability to recruit, motivate and retain a qualified workforce to work in our restaurants in an intensely competitive environment. increased costs associated with recruiting, motivating and retaining qualified employees to work in our company-operated restaurants could have a negative impact on our company-operated margins. similar concerns apply to our franchisees. we are also impacted by the costs and other effects of compliance with u.s. and international regulations affecting our workforce, which includes our staff and employees working in our company-operated restaurants. these regulations are increasingly focused on employment issues, including wage and hour, healthcare, immigration, retirement and other employee benefits and workplace practices. our potential exposure to reputational and other harm regarding our workplace practices or conditions or those of our independent franchisees or suppliers (or perceptions thereof) could have a negative impact on consumer perceptions of us and our business. additionally, economic action, such as boycotts, protests, work stoppages or campaigns by labor organizations, could adversely affect us (including our ability to recruit and retain talent) or the franchisees and suppliers that are also part of the mcdonald's system and whose performance may have a material impact on our results. information technology system failures or interruptions, or breaches of network security, may interrupt our operations. we are increasingly reliant on technological systems, such as point-of-sale and other in-store systems or platforms, technologies supporting mcdonald's delivery and digital solutions, as well as technologies that facilitate communication and collaboration internally, with affiliated entities, customers or independent third parties to conduct our business, including technology-enabled systems provided to us by third parties. any failure of these systems could significantly impact our operations and customer experience and perceptions. despite the implementation of security measures, those technology systems and solutions could become vulnerable to damage, disability or failures due to theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events. our increasing reliance on third party systems also present the risks faced by the third party's business, including the operational, security and credit risks of those parties. if those systems were to fail or otherwise be unavailable, and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we could experience an interruption in our operations. furthermore, security breaches have from time to time occurred and may in the future occur involving our systems, the systems of the parties we communicate or collaborate with (including franchisees), or those of third party providers. these may include such things as unauthorized access, denial of service, computer viruses, introduction of malware or ransomware and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. our information technology systems contain personal, financial and other information that is entrusted to us by our customers, mcdonald's corporation 2017 annual report 5 our employees and other third parties, as well as financial, proprietary and other confidential information related to our business. an actual or alleged security breach could result in disruptions, shutdowns, theft or unauthorized disclosure of personal, financial, proprietary or other confidential information. the occurrence of any of these incidents could result in reputational damage, adverse publicity, loss of consumer confidence, reduced sales and profits, complications in executing our growth initiatives and criminal penalties or civil liabilities. the global scope of our business subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business. we encounter differing cultural, regulatory and economic environments within and among the more than 100 countries where mcdonald's restaurants operate, and our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on the system's success in these environments. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment, and our global success is partially dependent on our system's ability to leverage operating successes across markets. planned initiatives may not have appeal across multiple markets with mcdonald's customers and could drive unanticipated changes in customer perceptions and guest counts. disruptions in operations or price volatility in a market can also result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or changes in trade-related tariffs or controls, government-mandated closure of our, our franchisees' or our suppliers' operations, and asset seizures. the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or inquiries, whether or not they have merit, may impact our results and could cause reputational or other harm. our international success depends in part on the effectiveness of our strategies and brand-building initiatives to reduce our exposure to such governmental investigations or inquiries. additionally, challenges and uncertainties are associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest. such challenges may be exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment. an inability to manage effectively the risks associated with our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we may also face challenges and uncertainties in developed markets. for example, as a result of the u.k.'s decision to leave the european union through a negotiated exit over a period of time, including its recent formal commencement of exit proceedings, it is possible that there will be increased regulatory complexities, as well as potential referenda in the u.k. and/or other european countries, that could cause uncertainty in european or worldwide economic conditions. in the short term, the decision created volatility in certain foreign currency exchange rates, and the resulting depression in those exchange rates may continue. any of these effects, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives around the world. in particular, we are affected by the impact of changes to tax laws or policy or related authoritative interpretations, including changes and uncertainties resulting from proposals for comprehensive or corporate tax reforms in the u.s. or elsewhere. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act ( tax act ) was signed into law. while we have estimated the effects of the tax act, we continue to refine those estimates with the possibility they could change, and those changes could be material. we are also impacted by settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by taxing authorities inside and outside of the u.s. in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. any increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. the profitability of our company-operated restaurants depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs, including food, paper, supplies, fuel, utilities and distribution, and other operating costs, including labor. any volatility in certain commodity prices or fluctuation in labor costs could adversely affect our operating results by impacting restaurant profitability. the commodity markets for some of the ingredients we use, such as beef and chicken, are particularly volatile due to factors such as seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, international commodity markets, food safety concerns, product recalls and government regulation, all of which are beyond our control and, in many instances, unpredictable. we can only partially address future price risk through hedging and other activities, and therefore increases in commodity costs could have an adverse impact on our profitability. increasing regulatory complexity may adversely affect restaurant operations and our financial results. our regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance and similar risks that could affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. we are affected by the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, including where inconsistent standards imposed by multiple governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. our success depends in part on our ability to manage the impact of new, potential or changing regulations that can affect our business plans and operations. these regulations include product packaging, marketing, the nutritional content and safety of our food and other products, labeling and other disclosure practices. compliance efforts with those regulations may be affected by ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers (particularly given varying requirements and practices for testing and disclosure). additionally, we are working to manage the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of the effects of climate change, greenhouse gases, and diminishing energy and water resources. these risks include the increased public focus, including by governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters, such as packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use. these risks also include the increased pressure to make commitments, set targets or 6 mcdonald's corporation 2017 annual report establish additional goals and take actions to meet them. these risks could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risks. if we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our complex regulatory environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we are subject to increasing legal complexity and could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us. increasing legal complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. we could be subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business, including class actions, administrative proceedings, government investigations, employment and personal injury claims, landlord/tenant disputes, disputes with current or former suppliers, claims by current or former franchisees and intellectual property claims (including claims that we infringed another party's trademarks, copyrights or patents). inconsistent standards imposed by governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to regulatory proceedings or litigation. litigation involving our relationship with franchisees and the legal distinction between our franchisees and us for employment law purposes, if determined adversely, could increase costs, negatively impact the business prospects of our franchisees and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. similarly, although our commercial relationships with our suppliers remain independent, there may be attempts to challenge that independence, which, if determined adversely, could also increase costs, negatively impact the business prospects of our suppliers, and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. we are also subject to legal and compliance risks and associated liability, such as in the areas of privacy and data collection, protection and management, as it relates to information we collect and share when we provide optional technology-related services and platforms to third parties. our operating results could also be affected by the following: the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; the cost and other effects of settlements, judgments or consent decrees, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition and preparation of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; and the scope and terms of insurance or indemnification protections that we may have. a judgment significantly in excess of any applicable insurance coverage or third party indemnity could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. further, adverse publicity resulting from these claims may hurt our business. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property or adequately ensure that we are not infringing the intellectual property of others, which could harm the value of the mcdonald's brand and our business. the success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. we rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products. we have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions. the trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries outside of the u.s. in which we do business or may do business in the future and may never be registered in all of these countries. the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the u.s. and foreign countries may not be adequate. in addition, the steps we have taken may not adequately ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property of others, and third parties may claim infringement by us in the future. in particular, we may be involved in intellectual property claims, including often aggressive or opportunistic attempts to enforce patents used in information technology systems, which might affect our operations and results. any claim of infringement, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and harm our business. we cannot ensure that franchisees and other third parties who hold licenses to our intellectual property will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property. changes in accounting standards or the recognition of impairment or other charges may adversely affect our future operations and results. new accounting standards or changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, could adversely affect our future results. we may also be affected by the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment or other charges that reduce our earnings. in assessing the recoverability of our long-lived assets, we consider changes in economic conditions and make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. these estimates are highly subjective and can be significantly impacted by many factors such as global and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, consumer and demographic trends, and our restructuring activities. if our estimates or underlying assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. if we experience any such changes, they could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results for the affected periods. a decrease in our credit ratings or an increase in our funding costs could adversely affect our profitability. our credit ratings may be negatively affected by our results of operations or changes in our debt levels. as a result, our interest expense, the availability of acceptable counterparties, our ability to obtain funding on favorable terms, collateral requirements and our operating or financial flexibility could all be negatively affected, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants. our operations may also be impacted by regulations affecting capital flows, financial markets or financial institutions, which can limit our ability to manage and deploy our liquidity or increase our funding costs. if any of these events were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. mcdonald's corporation 2017 annual report 7 trading volatility and price of our common stock may be adversely affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. the most important of these factors, some of which are outside our control, are the following: the unpredictable nature of global economic and market conditions; governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the u.s., which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can be affected by market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete); unauthorized disclosures about our performance, plans or expectations about our business; our actual performance and creditworthiness; investor confidence, driven in part by expectations about our performance; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald's may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average; the impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and the impact on our results of corporate actions and market and third-party perceptions and assessments of such actions, such as those we may take from time to time as we implement our strategies in light of changing business, legal and tax considerations and evolve our corporate structure. events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others, can adversely affect our results and prospects. severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels and supply availability and costs, as well as the local operations in impacted markets, all of which can affect our results and prospects. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to some of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to cover our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 26 of the form 10-k.risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements the information in this report includes forward-looking statements about future events and circumstances and their effects upon revenues, expenses and business opportunities. generally speaking, any statement in this report not based upon historical fact is a forward-looking statement. forward-looking statements can also be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as may, will, expect, believe, anticipate and plan or similar expressions. in particular, statements regarding our plans, strategies, prospects and expectations regarding our business and industry, including those under outlook, are forward-looking statements. they reflect our expectations, are not guarantees of performance and speak only as of the date of this report. except as required by law, we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business results are subject to a variety of risks, including those that are reflected in the following considerations and factors, as well as elsewhere in our filings with the sec. if any of these considerations or risks materialize, our expectations may change and our performance may be adversely affected. if we do not successfully evolve and execute against our business strategies, including under the velocity growth plan, we may not be able to increase operating income. to drive operating income growth, our business strategies must be effective in maintaining and strengthening customer appeal, delivering sustainable guest count growth and driving a higher average check. whether these strategies are successful depends mainly on our system's ability to: continue to innovate and differentiate the mcdonald's experience, including by preparing and serving our food in a way that balances value and convenience to our customers with profitability; capitalize on our global scale, iconic brand and local market presence to enhance our ability to retain, regain and convert key customer groups; utilize our new organizational structure to build on our progress and execute against our business strategies; augment our digital and delivery initiatives, including mobile ordering, along with experience of the future ( eotf ), particularly in the u.s.; identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of systemwide restaurants; mcdonald's corporation 2018 annual report 3 operate restaurants with high service levels and optimal capacity while managing the increasing complexity of our restaurant operations and create efficiencies through innovative use of technology; and accelerate our existing strategies through growth opportunities, investments and partnerships. if we are delayed or unsuccessful in executing our strategies, or if our strategies do not yield the desired results, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. our investments to enhance the customer experience, including through technology, may not generate the expected returns. our long-term business objectives depend on the successful systemwide execution of our strategies. we continue to build upon our investments in eotf, which focus on restaurant modernization and technology, as well as digital engagement and delivery, in order to transform the customer experience. as part of these investments, we are placing renewed emphasis on improving our service model and strengthening relationships with customers, in part through digital channels and loyalty initiatives, as well as mobile ordering and payment systems. we also continue to refine our delivery initiatives and partnerships, which may not generate expected returns. if these initiatives are not well executed, or if we do not fully realize the intended benefits of these significant investments, our business results may suffer. if we do not anticipate and address evolving consumer preferences and effectively execute our pricing, promotional and marketing plans, our business could suffer. our continued success depends on our system's ability to retain, regain and convert customers. in order to do so, we need to anticipate and respond effectively to continuously shifting consumer demographics, and trends in food sourcing, food preparation, food offerings and consumer preferences in the informal eating out ( ieo ) segment. if we are not able to quickly and effectively respond to these changes, or our competitors respond more effectively, our financial results could be adversely impacted. our ability to retain, regain and convert customers also depends on the impact of pricing, promotional and marketing plans across the system, and the ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly and effectively to evolving customer preferences, as well as shifting economic and competitive conditions. existing or future pricing strategies, and the value proposition they represent, are expected to continue to be important components of our business strategy; however, they may not be successful in retaining, regaining and converting customers, or may not be as successful as the efforts of our competitors, and could negatively impact sales, guest counts and market share. additionally, we operate in a complex and costly advertising environment. our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful in retaining, regaining and converting customers. our success depends in part on whether the allocation of our advertising and marketing resources across different channels allows us to reach our customers effectively. if the advertising and marketing programs are not successful, or are not as successful as those of our competitors, our sales, guest counts and market share could decrease. failure to preserve the value and relevance of our brand could have an adverse impact on our financial results. to be successful in the future, we believe we must preserve, enhance and leverage the value of our brand. brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions. those perceptions are affected by a variety of factors, including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, the ingredients we use, our business practices and the manner in which we source the commodities we use. consumer acceptance of our offerings is subject to change for a variety of reasons, and some changes can occur rapidly. for example, nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and may have contradictory implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that affect the ieo segment or perceptions of our brand generally or relative to available alternatives. consumer perceptions may also be affected by adverse commentary from third parties, including through social media or conventional media outlets, regarding the quick-service category of the ieo segment, our brand, our operations, our suppliers or our franchisees. if we are unsuccessful in addressing adverse commentary, whether or not accurate, our brand and our financial results may suffer. additionally, the ongoing relevance of our brand may depend on the success of our sustainability initiatives, which require systemwide coordination and alignment. if we are not effective in addressing social and environmental responsibility matters or achieving relevant sustainability goals, consumer trust in our brand may suffer. in particular, business incidents or practices whether actual or perceived, that erode consumer trust or confidence, particularly if such incidents or practices receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results. we face intense competition in our markets, which could hurt our business. we compete primarily in the ieo segment, which is highly competitive. we also face sustained, intense competition from traditional, fast casual and other competitors, which may include many non-traditional market participants such as convenience stores, grocery stores and coffee shops. we expect our environment to continue to be highly competitive, and our results in any particular reporting period may be impacted by new or continuing actions of our competitors, which may have a short- or long-term impact on our results. we compete on the basis of product choice, quality, affordability, service and location. in particular, we believe our ability to compete successfully in the current market environment depends on our ability to improve existing products, develop new products, price our products appropriately, deliver a relevant customer experience, manage the complexity of our restaurant operations and respond effectively to our competitors' actions or disruptive actions from others which we do not foresee. there can be no assurance these strategies will be effective, and some strategies may be effective at improving some metrics while adversely affecting other metrics, which could have the overall effect of harming our business. mcdonald's corporation 2018 annual report 4 unfavorable general economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results. our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, which can vary significantly by market and can impact consumer disposable income levels and spending habits. economic conditions can also be impacted by a variety of factors including hostilities, epidemics and actions taken by governments to manage national and international economic matters, whether through austerity, stimulus measures or trade measures, and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, taxation and other economic drivers. sustained adverse economic conditions or periodic adverse changes in economic conditions in our markets could pressure our operating performance, and our business and financial results may suffer. our results of operations are also affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and unfavorable currency fluctuations could adversely affect reported earnings. supply chain interruptions may increase costs or reduce revenues. we depend on the effectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and sufficient supply of quality products on favorable terms. although many of the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of suppliers in countries around the world, certain products have limited suppliers, which may increase our reliance on those suppliers. supply chain interruptions, including shortages and transportation issues, and price increases can adversely affect us as well as our suppliers and franchisees whose performance may have a significant impact on our results. such shortages or disruptions could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers, franchisees or us. if we experience interruptions in our system's supply chain, our costs could increase and it could limit the availability of products critical to our system's operations. food safety concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. our ability to increase sales and profits depends on our system's ability to meet expectations for safe food and on our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald's of food-borne illnesses and food or product safety issues that may arise in the future. food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to offer safe food products to our customers, including as our menu and service model evolve. however, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness, occur within the food industry and our system from time to time and, in addition, could occur in the future. instances of food tampering, food contamination or food-borne illness, whether actual or perceived, could adversely affect our brand and reputation as well as our revenues and profits. our franchise business model presents a number of risks. as the company's business model has evolved to a more heavily franchised structure, our success relies to large degree on the financial success and cooperation of our franchisees, including our developmental licensees and affiliates. our restaurant margins arise from two sources: fees from franchised restaurants (e.g., rent and royalties based on a percentage of sales) and, to a lesser degree, sales from company-operated restaurants. our franchisees and developmental licensees manage their businesses independently, and therefore are responsible for the day-to-day operation of their restaurants. the revenues we realize from franchised restaurants are largely dependent on the ability of our franchisees to grow their sales. business risks affecting our operations also affect our franchisees. if our franchisees do not experience sales growth, our revenues and margins could be negatively affected as a result. also, if sales trends worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, restaurant closures, or delayed or reduced payments to us. our success also relies on the willingness and ability of our independent franchisees and affiliates to implement major initiatives, which may include financial investment, and to remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive reinvestment plans. the ability of franchisees to contribute to the achievement of our plans is dependent in large part on the availability to them of funding at reasonable interest rates and may be negatively impacted by the financial markets in general, by the creditworthiness of our franchisees or the company or by banks' lending practices. if our franchisees are unwilling or unable to invest in major initiatives or are unable to obtain financing at commercially reasonable rates, or at all, our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. our operating performance could also be negatively affected if our franchisees experience food safety or other operational problems or project an image inconsistent with our brand and values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited, costly to exercise or subjected to litigation and potential delays. if franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our required standards, our brand's image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could hurt our business and operating results. our ownership mix also affects our results and financial condition. the decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex. the benefits of our more heavily franchised structure depends on various factors including whether we have effectively selected franchisees, licensees and/or affiliates that meet our rigorous standards, whether we are able to successfully integrate them into our structure and whether their performance and the resulting ownership mix supports our brand and financial objectives. challenges with respect to talent management could harm our business. effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. failure to effectively identify, develop and retain key personnel, recruit high-quality candidates and facilitate smooth management and personnel transitions could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results. mcdonald's corporation 2018 annual report 5 challenges with respect to labor availability and cost could impact our business and results of operations. our success depends in part on our system's ability to proactively recruit, motivate and retain a qualified workforce to work in our restaurants in an intensely competitive environment. increased costs associated with recruiting, motivating and retaining qualified employees to work in our company-operated restaurants could have a negative impact on our company-operated margins. similar concerns apply to our franchisees. we are also impacted by the costs and other effects of compliance with u.s. and international regulations affecting our workforce, which includes our staff and employees working in our company-operated restaurants. these regulations are increasingly focused on employment issues, including wage and hour, healthcare, immigration, retirement and other employee benefits and workplace practices. claims of non-compliance with these regulations could result in liability and expense to us. our potential exposure to reputational and other harm regarding our workplace practices or conditions or those of our independent franchisees or suppliers (or perceptions thereof) could have a negative impact on consumer perceptions of us and our business. additionally, economic action, such as boycotts, protests, work stoppages or campaigns by labor organizations, could adversely affect us (including our ability to recruit and retain talent) or the franchisees and suppliers that are also part of the mcdonald's system and whose performance may have a material impact on our results. information technology system failures or interruptions, or breaches of network security, may impact our operations. we are increasingly reliant on technological systems, such as point-of-sale and other systems or platforms, technologies supporting mcdonald's digital and delivery solutions, as well as technologies that facilitate communication and collaboration internally, with affiliated entities, customers, employees or independent third parties to conduct our business, including technology-enabled systems provided to us by third parties. any failure of these systems could significantly impact our operations and customer experience and perceptions. despite the implementation of security measures, those technology systems and solutions could become vulnerable to damage, disability or failures due to theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events. our increasing reliance on third party systems also present the risks faced by the third party's business, including the operational, security and credit risks of those parties. if those systems were to fail or otherwise be unavailable, and we were unable to recover in a timely manner, we could experience an interruption in our operations. furthermore, security breaches have from time to time occurred and may in the future occur involving our systems, the systems of the parties we communicate or collaborate with (including franchisees), or those of third party providers. these may include such things as unauthorized access, denial of service, computer viruses, introduction of malware or ransomware and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. our information technology systems contain personal, financial and other information that is entrusted to us by our customers, our employees and other third parties, as well as financial, proprietary and other confidential information related to our business. an actual or alleged security breach could result in disruptions, shutdowns, theft or unauthorized disclosure of personal, financial, proprietary or other confidential information. further, the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) requires entities processing the personal data of individuals in the european union to meet certain requirements regarding the handling of that data. failure to meet gdpr requirements could result in substantial penalties and materially adversely impact our financial results. the occurrence of any of these incidents could result in reputational damage, adverse publicity, loss of consumer confidence, reduced sales and profits, complications in executing our growth initiatives and regulatory and legal risk, including criminal penalties or civil liabilities. the global scope of our business subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business. we encounter differing cultural, regulatory and economic environments within and among the more than 100 countries where mcdonald's restaurants operate, and our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on the system's success in these environments. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment, and our global success is partially dependent on our system's ability to leverage operating successes across markets and brand perceptions. planned initiatives may not have appeal across multiple markets with mcdonald's customers and could drive unanticipated changes in customer perceptions and guest counts. disruptions in operations or price volatility in a market can also result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or changes in trade-related tariffs or controls, sanctions and counter sanctions, government-mandated closure of our franchisees' or our suppliers' operations, and asset seizures. the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or inquiries, whether or not they have merit, or the impact of these other measures, may impact our results and could cause reputational or other harm. our international success depends in part on the effectiveness of our strategies and brand-building initiatives to reduce our exposure to such governmental investigations or inquiries. additionally, challenges and uncertainties are associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest. such challenges may be exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment. an inability to manage effectively the risks associated with our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we may also face challenges and uncertainties in developed markets. for example, as a result of the u.k.'s decision to leave the european union through a negotiated exit over a period of time, including its formal commencement of exit proceedings, it is possible that there will be increased regulatory complexities, as well as potential referenda in the u.k. and/or other european countries, that could cause uncertainty in european or worldwide economic conditions. the decision created volatility in certain foreign currency exchange rates that may or may not continue. any of these effects, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. mcdonald's corporation 2018 annual report 6 changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives around the world. in particular, we are affected by the impact of changes to tax laws or policy or related authoritative interpretations. we are also impacted by settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by taxing and governmental authorities inside and outside of the u.s. in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. any significant increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. the profitability of our company-operated restaurants depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs, including food, paper, supplies, fuel, utilities and distribution, and other operating costs, including labor. any volatility in certain commodity prices or fluctuation in labor costs could adversely affect our operating results by impacting restaurant profitability. the commodity markets for some of the ingredients we use, such as beef and chicken, are particularly volatile due to factors such as seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, international commodity markets, food safety concerns, product recalls and government regulation, all of which are beyond our control and, in many instances, unpredictable. we can only partially address future price risk through hedging and other activities, and therefore increases in commodity costs could have an adverse impact on our profitability. increasing regulatory complexity may adversely affect restaurant operations and our financial results. our regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance and similar risks that could affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. we are affected by the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, including where inconsistent standards imposed by multiple governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. our success depends in part on our ability to manage the impact of new, potential or changing regulations that can affect our business plans and operations. these regulations include product packaging, marketing, the nutritional content and safety of our food and other products, labeling and other disclosure practices. compliance efforts with those regulations may be affected by ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers (particularly given varying requirements and practices for testing and disclosure). additionally, we are working to manage the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of the effects of climate change, greenhouse gases, and diminishing energy and water resources. these risks include the increased public focus, including by governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters, such as packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use. these risks also include the increased pressure to make commitments, set targets or establish additional goals and take actions to meet them. these risks could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risks. if we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our complex regulatory environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we are subject to increasing legal complexity and could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us. increasing legal complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. we could be subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business, including class actions, administrative proceedings, government investigations and proceedings, employment and personal injury claims, landlord/tenant disputes, disputes with current or former suppliers, claims by current or former franchisees and intellectual property claims (including claims that we infringed another party's trademarks, copyrights or patents). regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are found to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert management's attention away from operations which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. inconsistent standards imposed by governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to regulatory proceedings or litigation. litigation and regulatory action concerning our relationship with franchisees and the legal distinction between our franchisees and us for employment law purposes, if determined adversely, could increase costs, negatively impact our business operations and the business prospects of our franchisees and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. similarly, although our commercial relationships with our suppliers remain independent, there may be attempts to challenge that independence, which, if determined adversely, could also increase costs, negatively impact the business prospects of our suppliers, and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. we are also subject to legal and compliance risks and associated liability, such as in the areas of privacy and data collection, protection and management, as it relates to information associated with our technology-related services and platforms made available to business partners, customers, employees or other third parties. our results could also be affected by the following: the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; the cost and other effects of settlements, judgments or consent decrees, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition and preparation of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; and the scope and terms of insurance or indemnification protections that we may have. mcdonald's corporation 2018 annual report 7 a judgment significantly in excess of any applicable insurance coverage or third party indemnity could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. further, adverse publicity resulting from claims may hurt our business. we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property or adequately confirm we are not infringing the intellectual property of others, which could harm the value of the mcdonald's brand and our business. the success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. we rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products. we have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions. the trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries outside of the u.s. in which we do business or may do business in the future and may never be registered in all of these countries. the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the u.s. and foreign countries may not be adequate. in addition, the steps we have taken may not adequately confirm that we do not infringe the intellectual property of others, and third parties may claim infringement by us in the future. in particular, we may be involved in intellectual property claims, including often aggressive or opportunistic attempts to enforce patents used in information technology systems, which might affect our operations and results. any claim of infringement, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and harm our business. we cannot guarantee that franchisees and other third parties who hold licenses to our intellectual property will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property. changes in accounting standards or the recognition of impairment or other charges may adversely affect our future operations and results. new accounting standards or changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, could adversely affect our future results. we may also be affected by the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment or other charges that reduce our earnings. in assessing the recoverability of our long-lived assets, we consider changes in economic conditions and make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. these estimates are highly subjective and can be significantly impacted by many factors such as global and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, consumer and demographic trends, and our restructuring activities. if our estimates or underlying assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. if we experience any such changes, they could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results for the affected periods. a decrease in our credit ratings or an increase in our funding costs could adversely affect our profitability. our credit ratings may be negatively affected by our results of operations or changes in our debt levels. as a result, our interest expense, the availability of acceptable counterparties, our ability to obtain funding on favorable terms, collateral requirements and our operating or financial flexibility could all be negatively affected, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants. our operations may also be impacted by regulations affecting capital flows, financial markets or financial institutions, which can limit our ability to manage and deploy our liquidity or increase our funding costs. if any of these events were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. trading volatility and price of our common stock may be adversely affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. the most important of these factors, some of which are outside our control, are the following: the unpredictable nature of global economic and market conditions; governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the u.s., which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can be affected by market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete); unauthorized disclosures about our performance, plans or expectations about our business; our actual performance and creditworthiness; investor confidence, driven in part by expectations about our performance; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald's may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average; the impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and the impact on our results of corporate actions and market and third-party perceptions and assessments of such actions, such as those we may take from time to time as we implement our strategies in light of changing business, legal and tax considerations and evolve our corporate structure. mcdonald's corporation 2018 annual report 8 events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others, can adversely affect our results and prospects. severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels and supply availability and costs, as well as the local operations in impacted markets, all of which can affect our results and prospects. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to some of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to cover our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 28 of the form 10-k.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, pages 15 and 16 of this form 10-k.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ================================================================================ quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, pages 17-18 of this form 10-k. mcdonald's corporation 21quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 19 of this form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 21 of this form 10-k.risk factors this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under outlook for 2006 in management discussion and analysis. these statements use such words as may, will, expect, believe and plan. they reflect our expectations about the future and speak only as of the date of this report. we do not undertake to update or revise them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. our business and execution of our strategic plan, the plan to win, are subject to risks. by far the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. the informal eating out segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is also highly fragmented and competitive. we have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. we also face risk in adapting our business model in particular markets. the decision to own restaurants or to operate under conventional franchise, license or joint venture agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. our plan, as described below, to reduce our ownership of restaurants may be difficult to achieve for many reasons, and the change in ownership mix may not affect our results as we now expect. regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate, as well as our results. in particular, the increasing focus on nutrition presents challenges for our menu development and marketing plans and may adversely affect our sales and costs of doing business. these risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we have designed and execute against the plan to win. we developed the plan to win to address the key drivers of our business and results people, products, place, price and promotion. the quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: our ability to anticipate and respond to trends or other factors that affect the informal eating out market and our competitive position in the various markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, consumer food preferences, publicity about our products or operations that can drive consumer perceptions, as well as our success in planning and executing initiatives to address these trends and factors or other competitive pressures; the success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires the trust and confidence of our customers; our ability to respond effectively to adverse consumer perceptions about the quick-service segment of the informal eating out market, our products or the reliability of our supply chain and the safety of the commodities we use, particularly beef and chicken; the success of our plans for 2006 and beyond to improve existing products and to roll-out new products and product line extensions, as well as the impact of our competitors actions in response to our product improvements and introductions and our ability to continue robust product development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; our ability to achieve an overall product mix that differentiates the mcdonald experience and balances consumer value with margin expansion, including in markets where cost or pricing pressures may be significant; the impact of pricing, marketing and promotional plans on product sales and margins and on our ability to target these efforts effectively to maintain or expand market share; mcdonald corporation 5 the impact of events such as public boycotts, labor strikes, price increases or other actions involving our vendors or distribution centers, natural disasters or other calamities that can adversely affect our supply chain and margins as well as the ability of our vendors or distribution centers to perform. our ability to drive improvements in our restaurants, recruit qualified restaurant personnel and motivate employees to achieve sustained high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet their expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; whether our restaurant remodeling and rebuilding efforts will foster sustained increases in comparable sales for the affected restaurants and yield our desired return on our capital investment; and our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way. our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix and whether we can achieve a mix that optimizes margins and returns, while meeting our business needs and customer expectations. our plans call for a reduction in company-operated restaurants in the u.k. by re-franchising them to third parties, as well as the pursuit of a developmental license model in between 15 to 20 additional markets and organizational changes to improve the performance of company-operated restaurants in other markets, notably canada. whether and when we can achieve these plans, as well as their success, is uncertain and depends mainly on the following: our ability to identify prospective franchisees and licensees with the experience and financial resources to be effective operators of mcdonald restaurants; whether there are regulatory or other constraints that restrict or prevent our ability to implement our plans or increase our costs; how quickly we re-franchise or enter into developmental licenses, which we expect will vary by market and could also vary significantly from period to period; whether the three-year period during which we plan to make these changes will be sufficient to achieve them; and changes in the operating or legal environment and other circumstances that cause us to delay or revise our plans to alter our ownership mix. our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income. our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may prompt promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of company-operated restaurants. whether we can manage this risk effectively depends mainly on the following: our ability to manage fluctuations in commodity prices, interest and foreign exchange rates and the effects of local governmental initiatives to manage national economic conditions such as consumer spending and inflation rates; the impact of labor costs on our margins, given our labor-intensive business model and the long-term trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets; the effects of local governmental initiatives to manage national economic conditions such as consumer spending or wage and inflation rates; our ability to develop effective initiatives in underperforming markets, such as the u.k., which is experiencing a highly competitive informal eating out market and low consumer confidence levels, japan, which is experiencing slow economic growth and a challenging informal eating out market and south korea, which is experiencing improving, yet still low consumer confidence levels; the nature and timing of management decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that can result in material impairment charges that reduce our earnings; and the success of our strategy in china, where we are planning significant growth, including our ability to identify and secure appropriate real estate sites and to manage the costs and profitability of our growth in light of competitive pressures and other operating conditions that may limit pricing flexibility. increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, including the united states and europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has significantly increased our cost of doing business. in developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face are the following: the difficulty of achieving compliance with often conflicting regulations in multiple state or national markets and the potential impact of new or changing regulation 6 mcdonald corporation that affects or restricts elements of our business, such as possible changes in regulations relating to advertising to children or nutritional labeling; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition of our products or the appropriateness or accuracy of our advertising or other communications; the impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which are constantly evolving and often contradictory in their implications, but nonetheless drive consumer perceptions, litigation and regulation in ways that are material to our business; the impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions involving consumers and shareholders, labor and employment matters or landlord liability and the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings and the possibility of settlements or judgments; disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from government actions, including price controls, limitations on the import or export of commodities we use or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors operations; the risks of operating in markets, such as brazil and china, in which there are significant uncertainties, including with respect to the application of legal requirements and the enforceability of laws and contractual obligations; the risks associated with information security and the use of cashless payments, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with privacy, consumer protection and other laws, costs resulting from consumer fraud and the impact on our margins as the use of cashless payments increases; and the impact of changes in accounting principles or practices (or related legal or regulatory interpretations or our critical accounting estimates), including changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or interpretations thereof), which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. our results can be adversely affected by market disruptions or events, such as the impact of weather conditions and natural disasters. market disruptions due to severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events (such as recent reports about the potential spread of avian flu) can affect consumer spending and confidence levels and adversely affect our results or prospects in affected markets. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain for these purposes may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 28 of this form 10-k.risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under outlook for 2007. these statements use such words as may, will, expect, believe and plan. they reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business and execution of our strategic plan, the plan to win, are subject to risks. by far the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. the informal eating out segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is also highly fragmented and competitive. we have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. we also face risk in adapting our business model in particular markets. the decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise, developmental license or joint venture agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. our plan to reduce our ownership of restaurants may be difficult to achieve for many reasons, and the change in ownership mix may not affect our results as we now expect. regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate, as well as our results. in particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food from field to front counter presents challenges for our brand and may adversely affect our results. these risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the plan to win. we developed the plan to win to address the key drivers of our business and results - - people, products, place, price and promotion. the quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: our ability to anticipate and respond to trends or other factors that affect the informal eating out market and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, consumer food preferences, publicity about our products or operations that can drive consumer perceptions, as well as our success in planning and executing initiatives to address these trends and factors or other competitive pressures; the success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires the trust and confidence of our customers; our ability to respond effectively to adverse consumer perceptions about the quick-service segment of the informal eating out market, our products or the reliability of our supply chain and the safety of the food ingredients we use, and our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald of food-borne illnesses involving other restaurant or food companies; the success of our plans for 2007 and beyond to improve existing products and to roll-out new products and product line extensions, as well as the impact of our competitors actions, including in response to our product improvements and introductions, and our ability to continue robust product development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; our ability to achieve an overall product mix that differentiates the mcdonald experience and balances consumer value with margin expansion, including in markets where cost or pricing pressures may be significant; the impact of pricing, marketing and promotional plans on product sales and margins and on our ability to target these efforts effectively to maintain or expand market share; the impact of events such as public boycotts, labor strikes and commodity or other supply chain price increases that can adversely affect us directly or adversely affect the vendors, franchisees and others that are also part of the mcdonald system and whose performance has a material impact on our results; our ability to drive improvements in our restaurants, recruit qualified restaurant personnel and motivate employees to achieve sustained high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet their expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; whether our ongoing restaurant remodeling and rebuilding initiatives, which vary from year to year by market and type, are targeted at the elements of the restaurant experience that will best accomplish our goals to enhance the relevance of our brand and achieve an efficient allocation of our capital resources; and our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way. our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix and whether we can achieve a mix that optimizes margins and returns, while meeting our business needs and customer expectations. as described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, our plans call for a reduction in company-operated restaurants by re-franchising them or entering into developmental license agreements. whether and when we can achieve these plans, as well as their success, is uncertain and will be affected by the following: our ability to identify prospective franchisees and licensees with the experience and financial resources to be effective operators of mcdonald restaurants; whether there are regulatory or other constraints that restrict or prevent our ability to implement our plans or increase our costs; 3 table of contents how quickly we re-franchise or enter into developmental licenses, which we expect will vary by market and could also vary significantly from period to period; the nature and amount of contingent liabilities and other exposures we may retain in connection with re-franchising through developmental licensing arrangements, such as indemnification obligations; the potential risks to our brand if a franchisee or licensee fails to perform or projects a brand image inconsistent with our values, even where we retain substantial rights to remedy such a default, which will likely be more significant if an arrangement places multiple markets or a large number of restaurants under the control of a single franchisee or licensee; whether the period during which we plan to make these changes will be sufficient to achieve them; and changes in the operating or legal environment and other circumstances that cause us to delay or revise our plans to alter our ownership mix. our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income. our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may prompt promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of company-operated restaurants. whether we can manage this risk effectively depends mainly on the following: our ability to manage fluctuations in commodity prices, interest and foreign exchange rates and the effects of local governmental initiatives to manage through national economic conditions such as consumer spending and inflation rates; the impact on our margins of labor costs given our labor-intensive business model and the trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets; whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites, either directly or though licensees or partners, consistent with our plans for net growth of systemwide restaurants from year to year, and whether new sites are as profitable as expected; the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions such as consumer spending or wage and inflation rates; whether the recent improvements in operating results in markets such as the u.k. and japan will be sustained and whether we can develop effective initiatives in other underperforming markets that may be experiencing challenges such as low consumer confidence levels, slow economic growth or a highly competitive operating environment; the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in significant impairment charges that reduce our earnings, such as those that may occur as we change our ownership mix as described above; and the success of our strategy in china, where we are planning significant growth, including our ability to identify and secure appropriate real estate sites and to manage the costs and profitability of our growth in light of competitive pressures and other operating conditions that may limit pricing flexibility. increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, including the united states and europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has significantly increased our cost of doing business. in developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face are the following: our ability to manage the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting regulations we face, especially in the united states where inconsistent standards imposed by local, state and federal authorities can adversely affect consumer perceptions and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings, and the impact of new, potential or changing regulation that affects or restricts elements of our business, particularly those relating to advertising to children, nutritional content or product labeling; the impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive consumer perceptions, litigation and regulation in ways that are material to our business; the risks and costs of mcdonald nutritional labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given differences in practices within the restaurant industry with respect to testing and disclosure, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and reliance on the accuracy and appropriateness of information obtained from third party suppliers; the impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions involving consumers and shareholders, labor and employment matters or landlord liability and the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings and the possibility of settlements or judgments; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition of our products or the appropriateness or accuracy of our advertising or other communications; disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from government actions, including price controls, limitations on the import or export of commodities we use or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors operations; the risks of operating in markets, such as brazil and china, in which there are significant uncertainties, including with respect to the application of legal requirements and the enforceability of laws and contractual obligations; the risks associated with information security and the use of cashless payments, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with privacy, consumer protection and other laws, costs resulting from consumer fraud and the impact on our margins as the use of cashless payments increases; and 4 table of contents the impact of changes in accounting principles or practices (or related legal or regulatory interpretations or our critical accounting estimates), including changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or interpretations thereof), which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. the trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock. these factors include some over which we have no control, such as general market conditions and governmental actions or reports about economic activity that may have a market-moving impact, regardless of whether the action or activity directly relates to our business. actions or reports by u.s. authorities are of special import since the united states is our largest segment and our principal trading market. trading activity in our common stock (whether in the cash or derivative markets) also affects prices and volatility. in addition to reflecting investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity can include significant purchases by shareholders who may seek to affect our business strategies, as well as both sales and purchases resulting from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average. finally, our stock price can be affected not only by operating actions we take, but also by non-operating initiatives, such as our plans to reduce shares outstanding through repurchases or increases in our dividend rate. our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters. severe weather conditions (such as hurricanes), terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events (such as the potential spread of avian flu) can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels and in turn the mcdonald system and our results and prospects in the affected markets. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain for these purposes may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 24 of this form 10-k.risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under outlook for 2008. these statements use such words as may, will, expect, believe and plan. they reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business and execution of our strategic plan, the plan to win, are subject to risks. by far the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. the informal eating out segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is also highly fragmented and competitive. we have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. we also face risk in adapting our business model in particular markets. the decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise, developmental license or joint venture agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate and our results. in particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food from field to front counter presents challenges for our brand and may adversely affect our results. these risks can have an impact both in the near-and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the plan to win. we developed the plan to win to address the key drivers of our business and results people, products, place, price and promotion. the quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: our ability to anticipate and respond to trends or other factors that affect the informal eating out market and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, trends in food preparation, consumer preferences and publicity about our products, all of which can drive consumer perceptions or affect the willingness of other companies to enter into site, supply or other arrangements or alliances with us, as well as our success in addressing these trends and factors or other competitive pressures; the success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires the trust and confidence of our customers; our ability to respond effectively to adverse consumer perceptions about the quick-service segment of the informal eating out market, our products and promotions (including the premiums we offer, such as our happy meal toys) or the reliability of our supply chain and the safety of the ingredients we use, and our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald of food-borne illnesses or product safety issues; the success of our plans to improve existing products and to roll-out new products and product line extensions, as well as the impact of our competitors actions, including in response to our product improvements and introductions, and our ability to continue robust product development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; our ability to achieve an overall product mix that differentiates the mcdonald experience and balances consumer value with margin expansion, including in markets where cost or pricing pressures may be significant; the impact of pricing, marketing and promotional plans on product sales and margins and on our ability to target these efforts effectively to maintain or expand market share; the impact of events such as boycotts, labor strikes and supply chain interruptions (including due to lack of supply or price increases) that can adversely affect us directly or adversely affect the vendors, franchisees and others that are also part of the mcdonald system and whose performance has a material impact on our results; our ability to recruit and retain qualified local personnel to manage our operations and growth in certain developing markets; our ability to drive restaurant improvements and to motivate our restaurant personnel to achieve sustained high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; our ability to maintain alignment with our franchisees on capital-intensive and other operating initiatives; the risks to our brand if a franchisee or licensee defaults in its obligations, particularly requirements to pay royalties, make investments and open new restaurants, or projects a brand image inconsistent with our values, which risks are more significant if an agreement places multiple markets or a large number of restaurants under the control of a single franchisee or licensee as is the case in latin america; whether our ongoing restaurant remodeling and rebuilding initiatives, which vary from year to year by market and type, are targeted at the elements of the restaurant experience that will best accomplish our goals to enhance the relevance of our brand and achieve an efficient allocation of our capital resources; and our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way. 3 table of contents our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix and whether we can achieve a mix that optimizes margins and returns, while meeting our business needs and customer expectations. in recent years, we have reduced the number of company-operated restaurants and we are planning further reductions by franchising company-operated restaurants or entering into developmental license agreements. whether and when we can achieve these plans, as well as their success, is uncertain and will be affected by the following: our ability to identify prospective franchisees and licensees with the experience and financial resources in the relevant markets to be effective operators of mcdonald restaurants and how quickly we can reach agreement with our counterparties, which we expect will vary by market and could also vary significantly from period to period; the nature and amount of contingent liabilities and other exposures we may retain in connection with developmental license agreements, such as the indemnification obligations we may incur as a result of the latam transaction; the risk that our contractual and other rights and remedies to protect against defaults by our counterparties will be limited by local law, costly to exercise or otherwise subject to limitations or litigation that may impair our ability to prevent or mitigate any adverse impact on our brand or on the financial performance we expect under our franchising and developmental license agreements; and changes in the operating or legal environment and other circumstances that cause us to delay or revise our plans to alter our ownership mix. our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income. our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may prompt promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of company-operated restaurants. whether we can manage this risk effectively depends mainly on the following: our ability to manage upward pressure on commodity prices, as well as fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates and local governmental actions to manage national economic conditions, such as consumer spending, inflation rates and unemployment levels, particularly in the united states, which could face a challenging economy in 2008; the impact on our margins of labor costs given our labor-intensive business model, the trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets and the potential impact of union organizing efforts on day-to-day operations of our restaurants; whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites, either directly or through licensees or other parties, consistent with our plans for net growth of systemwide restaurants from year to year, and whether new sites are as profitable as expected; whether we can develop effective initiatives in markets that may be experiencing challenges; the challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing and high growth markets, such as china, russia and india, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment; the success of our strategy in china, where we are planning significant growth, including our ability to manage the costs and profitability of our growth in light of competitive pressures and other operating conditions that may limit pricing flexibility; and the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings, such as those that may occur as we change our ownership mix as described above. increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, including the united states and europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. in developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face are the following: our ability to manage the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting regulations we face, especially in the united states where inconsistent standards imposed by local, state and federal authorities can adversely affect consumer perceptions and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings, and the impact of new, potential or changing regulation that affects or restricts elements of our business, particularly those relating to advertising to children, nutritional content and product labeling and safety; the impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive consumer perceptions, litigation and regulation in ways that could be material to our business; the risks and costs of mcdonald nutritional labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given differences among applicable legal requirements and laws and among practices within the restaurant industry with respect to testing and disclosure, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and reliance on the accuracy and appropriateness of information obtained from third party suppliers; 4 table of contents the impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions, labor and employment matters and landlord/tenant disputes, the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; and the cost and other effects of settlements or judgments, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition of our products or the appropriateness or accuracy of our advertising or other communications; the costs and other effects of compliance with u.s. federal and state regulations regarding immigration and the enforcement of those regulations; disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from governmental actions, such as price or import-export controls or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors operations, and the cost and disruption of responding to government investigations, whether or not they have merit or are undertaken to achieve political impact; the risks associated with information security and the use of cashless payments, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with privacy, consumer protection and other laws, the impact on our margins as the use of cashless payments increases, the potential costs associated with consumer fraud and the loss of consumer confidence that may result from alleged security breaches involving our point of sale and other systems; and the impact of changes in accounting principles or practices, related legal or regulatory interpretations or our critical accounting estimates, changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or interpretations thereof), and the impact of settlements of adjustments proposed by the irs in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. the trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. the most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are: governmental actions or media reports and commentary relating to economic activity or events, such as the current u.s. presidential election, even where the action, report or event does not directly relate to our business or prospects, and particularly actions by u.s. authorities or u.s. economic activity, which are of special import because the united states is the principal trading market for our common stock; trading activity in our common stock (whether in the cash or derivative markets), which can reflect not only investor expectations about our business, but also significant purchases by shareholders who may seek to affect our business strategies, or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average; and the impact of our stock repurchase program, dividend rate and, particularly, changes in our debt levels that can result in adjustments to our credit ratings, which in turn could affect our interest expense, our ability to obtain funding on favorable terms, including to refinance existing debt, and our flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants. our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters. severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels and in turn the mcdonald system and our results and prospects in the affected markets. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain for these purposes may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 26 of this form 10-k.risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under outlook for 2009. these statements use such words as may, will, expect, 4 table of contents believe and plan. they reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business and execution of our strategic plan, the plan to win, are subject to risks. the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. the informal eating out segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is also highly fragmented and competitive. we have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. we also face risk in adapting our business model in particular markets. the decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate and our results. in particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food from field to front counter presents challenges for our brand. these risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the plan to win. the plan to win addresses the key drivers of our business and results people, products, place, price and promotion. the quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: our ability to anticipate and respond to trends or other factors that affect the informal eating out market and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, trends in food preparation, consumer preferences and publicity about our products, all of which can drive popular perceptions of our business or affect the willingness of other companies to enter into site, supply or other arrangements or alliances with us, as well as our success in addressing these trends and factors or other competitive pressures; the success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires trust and confidence; our ability to respond effectively to adverse perceptions about the quick-service segment of the informal eating out market, our products and promotions (including the premiums we offer, such as our happy meal toys) or the reliability of our supply chain and the safety of the ingredients we use, and our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald of food-borne illnesses or product safety issues; the success of our plans to improve existing products and to roll-out new products and product line extensions, as well as the impact of our competitors actions, including in response to our product improvements and introductions, and our ability to continue robust product development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; our ability to achieve an overall product mix that differentiates the mcdonald experience and balances consumer value with margin expansion, including in markets where cost or pricing pressures may be significant; the impact of pricing, marketing and promotional plans on product sales and margins and on our ability to target these efforts effectively to maintain or expand market share and increase guest counts; the impact of events such as boycotts or protests, labor strikes and supply chain interruptions (including due to lack of supply or price increases) that can adversely affect us directly or adversely affect the vendors, franchisees and others that are also part of the mcdonald system and whose performance has a material impact on our results; our ability to recruit and retain qualified local personnel to manage our operations and growth in certain developing markets; our ability to drive restaurant improvements and to motivate our restaurant personnel to achieve sustained high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; our ability to maintain alignment with our franchisees on capital-intensive and other operating and promotional initiatives; the risks to our brand if a franchisee or licensee defaults in its obligations (particularly requirements to pay royalties, make capital investments and open new restaurants), experiences food safety or other operational problems or otherwise projects a brand image inconsistent with our values, all of which become more significant risks if an agreement places a large number of restaurants under the control of a single franchisee or licensee as is the case in latin america; whether our ongoing restaurant remodeling and rebuilding initiatives, which vary from year to year by market and type, are targeted at the elements of the restaurant experience that will best accomplish our goals to enhance the relevance of our brand and achieve an efficient allocation of our capital resources; and our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way. our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income. our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market and may prompt promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, constrain our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of company-operated restaurants. certain macroeconomic events, such as the current uncertain economic conditions, could have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact on the general business environment, which could also adversely affect us. whether we can manage these risks effectively depends mainly on the following: our ability to manage volatile commodity prices and the anticipated negative impact on our 2009 results of fluctuations in 5 table of contents foreign exchange rates, as well as any impact of changes in interest rates and governmental actions to manage national economic conditions such as the availability of credit, consumer spending, unemployment levels and inflation rates; the impact on our margins of labor costs given our labor-intensive business model, the trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets and the potential impact of union organizing efforts on day-to-day operations of our restaurants; whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites, either directly or through licensees or other parties, consistent with our plans for net growth of systemwide restaurants from year to year, and whether new sites are as profitable as expected; the challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, such as china, russia and india, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment; and the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings, such as those that may occur as we change our ownership mix. our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix and whether we can achieve a mix that optimizes margins and returns, while meeting our business needs and customer expectations. in recent years, we have reduced the number of company-operated restaurants and we are planning further reductions by refranchising company-operated restaurants or entering into developmental license agreements. whether and when we can achieve these plans, as well as their success, is uncertain and will be affected by the following: our ability to identify prospective franchisees and licensees with the experience and financial resources in the relevant markets to be effective operators of mcdonald restaurants and how quickly we can reach agreement with our counterparties, which we expect will vary by market and could also vary significantly from period to period; the nature and amount of contingent liabilities and other exposures we may retain in connection with developmental license agreements, such as the indemnification obligations we may incur as a result of the latam transaction; the risk that our contractual and other rights and remedies to protect against defaults by our counterparties will be limited by local law, costly to exercise or otherwise subject to limitations or litigation that may impair our ability to prevent or mitigate any adverse impact on our brand or on the financial performance we expect under our franchising and developmental license agreements; and changes in the operating or legal environment and other circumstances that cause us to delay or revise our plans to alter our ownership mix, including potential constraints on access to capital by existing or prospective franchisees. increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, including the united states and europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. in developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following: the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting regulations we face, especially in the united states where inconsistent standards imposed by local, state and federal authorities can adversely affect popular perceptions of our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings, and the impact of new, potential or changing regulation that affects or restricts elements of our business, particularly those relating to advertising to children, nutritional content and product labeling and safety; the impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation in ways that could be material to our business; the risks and costs of mcdonald nutritional labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given differences among applicable legal requirements and practices within the restaurant industry with respect to testing and disclosure, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information obtained from third party suppliers; the impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions, labor and employment claims and landlord/tenant disputes, the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; and the cost and other effects of settlements or judgments, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition of our products or the appropriateness or accuracy of our advertising or other communications; the increasing costs and other effects of compliance with existing and possible future u.s. federal, state and local regulations regarding immigration and evolving enforcement standards under those regulations, as well as compliance with other u.s. and overseas labor regulations, including regulations relating to wage and hour practices, job classifications, mandatory healthcare benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination; the impact of the current economic conditions on unemployment levels and consumer confidence, particularly if conditions worsen in 2009, and the effect of initiatives to stimulate economic recovery and to stabilize or further regulate financial markets on the cost and availability of funding for the company and its franchisees, inflation and foreign exchange rates; disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from governmental actions, such as price or import-export controls or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors operations, and the cost and disruption of responding to government investigations, whether or not they have merit or are undertaken to achieve political impact; 6 table of contents the risks associated with information security and the use of cashless payments, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with privacy, consumer protection and other laws, the impact on our margins as the use of cashless payments increases, the potential costs associated with alleged security breaches and the loss of consumer confidence that may result; and the impact of changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, related legal or regulatory interpretations or our critical accounting estimates, changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or interpretations thereof), and the impact of settlements of adjustments proposed by the irs in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. the trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. the most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following: the current uncertain global economic conditions and market volatility; governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the united states which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; trading activity in our common stock or related instruments, which can reflect market commentary or expectations about our business (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete in some cases), significant purchases by shareholders who may seek to affect our business strategies, or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average; and the impact of our stock repurchase program, dividend rate or changes in our debt levels that may affect our credit ratings, interest expense, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants, as well as the impact of other corporate actions, such as initiatives to rationalize our corporate structure. our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters. severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels or on other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 26 of this form 10-k.risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under outlook for 2010. these statements use such words as may, will, expect, believe and plan. they reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business and execution of our strategic plan, the plan to win, are subject to risks. the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. the informal eating out (ieo) segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. the current economic environment has caused the ieo segment to contract in many markets, including some of our major markets, and this may continue. the current economic environment has increased consumer focus on value, heightening pricing pressures across the industry, which could affect our ability to continue to grow sales despite the strength of our brand and value proposition. we have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. regulatory and similar initiatives around the world have also become more wide-ranging and prescriptive and affect how we operate and our results. in particular, increasing focus on nutritional content and on the production, processing and preparation of food from field to front counter presents challenges for our brand. the risks we face can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the plan to win, particularly as the global economy emerges from recession. the plan to win addresses the key drivers of our business and results people, products, place, price and promotion. the quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to trends or other factors that affect the ieo segment and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, trends in food preparation, consumer preferences and publicity about our products, all of which can drive popular perceptions of our business or affect the willingness of other companies to enter into site, supply or other arrangements or alliances with us; the success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires trust and confidence; our ability to respond effectively to adverse perceptions about the quick-service category of the ieo segment, our products and promotions (including the premiums we offer, such as our happy meal toys) or the reliability of our supply chain and the safety of the ingredients we use, and our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald of food-borne illnesses or product safety issues; the success of our plans to improve existing products and to roll out new products and product line extensions, as well as the impact of our competitors actions, including in response to our product improvements and introductions, and our ability to continue robust product development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; our ability to achieve an overall product mix that differentiates the mcdonald experience and balances consumer value with margin expansion, particularly in markets where pricing or cost pressures are significant or have been exacerbated by challenging economic conditions; the impact of our pricing, marketing and promotional plans on sales and margins and our ability to adjust our plans to respond quickly to changing economic conditions; the impact of events such as boycotts or protests, labor strikes and supply chain interruptions (including due to lack of supply or price increases) that can adversely affect us directly or adversely affect the vendors, franchisees and others that are also part of the mcdonald system and whose performance has a material impact on our results; our ability to recruit and retain qualified local personnel to manage our operations and growth in certain developing markets; 3 table of contents our ability to drive restaurant improvements and to motivate our restaurant personnel to achieve sustained high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; whether our restaurant remodeling and rebuilding efforts, which remain a priority notwithstanding the current period of slow economic growth and challenging credit markets, are targeted at the elements of the restaurant experience that will best accomplish our goals to enhance the relevance of our brand and achieve an efficient allocation of our capital resources; our ability to maintain alignment with franchisees on operating, promotional and capital-intensive initiatives; the risks to our brand if a franchisee defaults in its obligations (particularly requirements to pay royalties, make capital investments and open new restaurants), experiences food safety or other operational problems or projects a brand image inconsistent with our values, all of which are more significant risks if a franchisee controls a large number of restaurants as is the case in latin america; and our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way. our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income. our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market or daypart (e.g., breakfast). to mitigate the impact of these conditions, we may take promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, limit our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of company-operated restaurants. some macroeconomic conditions could have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact. the current environment has been characterized by slowing economies, rising unemployment, declining wages, constrained credit and volatile financial markets. these conditions have significantly affected consumer spending and habits. moreover, the timing and strength of a recovery is uncertain in many of our most important markets, and growth in consumer spending generally lags improvement in the broader economy. the key factors that affect our ability to manage the impact of these conditions are the following: whether our strategies will permit us to compete effectively and make continued market share gains, while at the same time achieving sales and operating income within our targeted long-term average annual range of growth; the effectiveness of our supply chain management, including hedging strategies, to preserve and, where possible, expand our margins; our ability to manage the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates and governmental actions to manage national economic conditions such as credit availability, consumer spending, unemployment levels and inflation rates; the impact on our margins of labor costs given our labor-intensive business model, the long-term trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets and the potential impact of union organizing efforts on day-to-day operations of our restaurants; whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of systemwide restaurants from year to year, and whether new sites are as profitable as expected; the challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, such as china, russia and india, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment; and the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings. increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, including the united states and europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. in developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following: the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting regulations we face, especially in the united states where inconsistent standards imposed by local, state and federal authorities can adversely affect popular perceptions of our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings, and the impact of new, potential or changing regulation that affects or restricts elements of our business, particularly those relating to advertising to children, nutritional content and product labeling and safety; the impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation, including taxation, in ways that could be material to our business; the risks and costs of mcdonald nutritional labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given differences among applicable legal requirements and practices within the restaurant industry with respect to testing and disclosure, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information obtained from third party suppliers; the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of increased focus by u.s. and overseas governmental authorities on environmental matters, such as climate change, the 4 table of contents reduction of greenhouse gases and water consumption, including as a result of initiatives that effectively impose a tax on carbon emissions, such as the proposed cap and trade legislation pending in the u.s. congress; the impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions, labor and employment claims and landlord/tenant disputes; the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; and the cost and other effects of settlements or judgments, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our advertising or other communications; the increasing costs and other effects of compliance with u.s. and overseas regulations affecting our workforce and labor practices, including regulations relating to wage and hour practices, immigration, mandatory healthcare benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination; the impact of the current economic conditions on unemployment levels and consumer confidence and the effect of initiatives to stimulate economic recovery and to further regulate financial markets (including through changes in taxation) on the cost and availability of funding for the company and its franchisees, inflation and foreign exchange rates; disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from governmental actions, such as price or import- export controls, increased tariffs or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors operations, and the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or proceedings, whether or not they have merit; the risks associated with information security and the use of cashless payments, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with privacy, consumer protection and other laws, the impact on our margins as the use of cashless payments increases, the potential costs associated with alleged security breaches and the loss of consumer confidence that may result; and the impact of changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, related legal or regulatory interpretations or our critical accounting estimates, changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or interpretations thereof), and the impact of settlements of adjustments proposed by the internal revenue service or other taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. the trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. the most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following: the current uncertain global economic conditions and market volatility; governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the united states which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can reflect market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete in some cases) or expectations about our business, our creditworthiness or investor confidence generally; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average; the impact of our stock repurchase program, dividend rate or changes in our debt levels on our credit ratings, interest expense, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our operating or financial flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants; and the impact on our results of other corporate actions, such as those we may take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure in light of business, legal and tax considerations. our results and financial condition are affected by our ownership mix. our refranchising strategy involves a shift to a greater percentage of franchised restaurants. the decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. when we refranchise a restaurant, it reduces consolidated revenues as company-operated sales shift to franchised sales, where we receive rent and/or royalties. it also reduces company-operated margin dollars while increasing franchised margin dollars, with the impact on margin percentages varying based on sales and operating costs of the refranchised restaurants. our refranchising strategy can also expose us to risks, including the following: whether the franchisees we select will have the experience and financial resources in the relevant markets to be effective operators of mcdonald restaurants; potential ongoing payment obligations as a result of our retention of any contingent liabilities in connection with refranchising transactions, such as the indemnification obligations we may incur as a result of the latam transaction; and the risk that our contractual and other rights and remedies to protect against defaults by our counterparties will be limited by local law, costly to exercise or otherwise subject to limitations or litigation that may impair our ability to prevent or mitigate any adverse impact on our brand or on the financial performance we expect under our franchising and developmental license agreements. 5 table of contents our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters. severe weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels or on other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 24 of the form 10-k.risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under outlook for 2011. these statements use such words as may, will, expect, believe and plan. they reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business and execution of our strategic plan, the plan to win, are subject to risks. the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our operating environment. the ieo segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. the current economic environment has caused the ieo segment to contract in many markets, including some of our major markets, and this may continue. the current environment, including persistently high unemployment rates in many of our markets, has also increased consumer focus on value and heightened pricing pressures across the industry. combined with increasing pressure on commodity and labor costs, these circumstances could affect our ability to continue to grow comparable sales and margins despite the strength of our brand and value proposition. we have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist among the more than 100 countries where we operate. our operations, plans and results are also affected by regulatory and similar initiatives around the world, as well as by the focus on nutritional content and the production, processing and preparation of food from field to front counter. the risks we face can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales depends largely on how well we execute the plan to win. the plan to win addresses the key drivers of our business and results people, products, place, price and promotion. the quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to trends or other factors that affect the ieo segment and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, trends in food preparation, consumer preferences and publicity about us, all of which can drive popular perceptions of our business or affect the willingness of other companies to enter into site, supply or other arrangements or alliances with us; our ability to drive restaurant improvements and to motivate our restaurant personnel to achieve sustained high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; whether our restaurant reimaging and rebuilding efforts, which remain a priority notwithstanding the current challenging economic and operating environment, are targeted at the elements of the restaurant experience that will best accomplish our goals to enhance the relevance of our brand and achieve an efficient allocation of our capital resources; the risks associated with our franchise business model, including whether our franchisees and developmental licensees will have the experience and financial resources to be effective operators and remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive initiatives and the potential impact on us if they experience food safety or other operational problems or project a brand image inconsistent with our values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited by local law or otherwise, costly to exercise or subject to litigation; the success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires trust and confidence; our ability to respond effectively to adverse perceptions about the quick-service category of the ieo segment or about our products, promotions and premiums, such as happy meals (collectively, our products), or the reliability of our supply chain and the safety of our products, and our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald of food-borne illnesses or product safety issues; the success of our plans to improve existing menu items and to roll out new menu items, as well as the impact of our competitors actions, including in response to our menu changes and product introductions, and our ability to continue robust menu development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; 3 table of contents our ability to differentiate the mcdonald experience in a way that balances consumer value with margin expansion, particularly in markets where pricing or cost pressures are significant or have been exacerbated by the current challenging economic and operating environment; the impact of pricing, marketing and promotional plans on sales and margins and our ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly to changing economic conditions; the impact of events such as boycotts or protests, labor strikes and supply chain interruptions (including due to lack of supply or price increases) that can adversely affect us directly or adversely affect the vendors, franchisees and others that are also part of the mcdonald system and whose performance has a material impact on our results; our ability to recruit and retain qualified local personnel to manage our operations and growth in certain developing markets; our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way; and the costs and operational risks associated with our increasing reliance on information technology (including our point-of-sale and other in-store technology systems or platforms), such as the need for increasing investments to upgrade and maintain our systems, the potential for system failures or programming errors and the impact on our margins as the use of cashless payments becomes more widespread. our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income. our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market or daypart (e.g., breakfast). to mitigate the impact of these conditions, we may take promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, limit our operating flexibility or result in charges, restaurant closings or sales of company-operated restaurants. some macroeconomic conditions could have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact. the current environment has been characterized by weak economies, persistently high unemployment rates and continuing uncertainty in financial and credit markets. these conditions have significantly affected consumer confidence and spending. moreover, the strength of the current recovery is uncertain in many of our most important markets, and growth in consumer spending generally lags improvement in the broader economy. the key factors that can affect our operations, plans and results in this environment are the following: whether our strategies will permit us to compete effectively and make continued market share gains despite the uncertain economic outlook, while at the same time achieving sales and operating income within our targeted long-term average annual range of growth; the effectiveness of our supply chain management, including hedging strategies, to assure reliable and sufficient product supply on favorable terms; the impact of foreign exchange and interest rates, as well as governmental actions to manage national economic matters, including austerity initiatives, credit availability, unemployment and taxation rates, all of which can also affect relative levels of disposable income and discretionary expenditures, such as food away from home; the impact on our margins of labor costs given our labor-intensive business model, the long-term trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets and any potential impact of union organizing efforts; whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of systemwide restaurants from year to year, and whether new sites are as profitable as expected; the challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, such as china and russia, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment; and the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings. increasing regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, including the united states and europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. in developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following: the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, especially in the united states where inconsistent standards imposed by local, state and federal authorities can adversely affect popular perceptions of our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings, and the impact of new, potential or changing regulation that affects or restricts elements of our business, particularly those relating to marketing to children, nutritional content and product labeling and safety; the impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation, including taxation, in ways that could be material to our business; the risks and costs of mcdonald nutritional labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given differences among applicable legal requirements and practices within the restaurant industry with respect to testing and disclosure, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and 4 table of contents the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information obtained from third party suppliers; the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of increased focus by u.s. and overseas governmental authorities and non-governmental organizations on environmental matters, such as climate change, the reduction of greenhouse gases and water consumption, including as a result of initiatives that effectively impose a tax on carbon emissions; the impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions, labor and employment claims and landlord/tenant disputes; the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; and the cost and other effects of settlements or judgments, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; the increasing costs and other effects of compliance with u.s. and overseas regulations affecting our workforce and labor practices, including regulations relating to wage and hour practices, immigration, mandatory healthcare benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination; the impact of the current economic conditions on unemployment levels and consumer confidence and the effect of initiatives to stimulate economic recovery and to further regulate financial markets on the cost and availability of funding for the company and its franchisees, inflation and foreign exchange rates; disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or import-export controls, increased tariffs or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors operations, and the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or proceedings, whether or not they have merit; the legal and compliance risks associated with information technology, such as the costs of compliance with privacy, consumer protection and other laws, the potential costs associated with alleged security breaches (including the loss of consumer confidence that may result and the risk of criminal penalties or civil liability to consumers or employees whose data is alleged to have been collected or used inappropriately) and potential challenges to the associated intellectual property rights; and the impact of changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or authoritative interpretations relating to any of these matters), and the impact of settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by the irs or other taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. the trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. the most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following: the continuing uncertain global economic and market conditions; governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the united states which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; changes in financial or tax reporting and accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results and investor perceptions of our performance; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can reflect market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete in some cases) or expectations about our business, our creditworthiness or investor confidence generally; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average; the impact of our stock repurchase program, dividend rate or changes in our debt levels on our credit ratings, interest expense, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our operating or financial flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants; and the impact on our results of other corporate actions, such as those we may take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure in light of business, legal and tax considerations. our results can be adversely affected by disruptions or events, such as the impact of severe weather conditions and natural disasters. severe weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics, or expectations about them, can have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels or on other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 22 of the form 10-k.risk factors and cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements the information on this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under outlook for 2012. these statements use such words as may, will, expect, believe and plan. they reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. we do not undertake to update them. our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. our business and execution of our strategic plan, the plan to win, are subject to risks. the most important of these is whether we can remain relevant to our customers and a brand they trust. meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment. the ieo segment of the restaurant industry, although largely mature in our major markets, is highly fragmented and competitive. the ieo segment has been contracting in many markets, including some major markets, due to unfavorable economic conditions, and this may continue. persistently high unemployment rates in many markets have also increased consumer focus on value and heightened pricing sensitivity. combined with increasing pressure on commodity and labor costs, these circumstances affect restaurant sales and margin growth despite the strength of our brand and value proposition. we have the added challenge of the cultural, economic and regulatory differences that exist within and among the more than 100 countries where we operate. initiatives we undertake may not have universal appeal among different segments of our customer base and can drive unanticipated changes in guest counts and customer perceptions. our operations, plans and results are also affected by regulatory and similar initiatives around the world, notably the focus on nutritional content and the production, processing and preparation of food from field to front counter, as well as industry marketing practices. these risks can have an impact both in the near- and long-term and are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance. our ability to remain a relevant and trusted brand and to increase sales and profits depends largely on how well we execute the plan to win. the plan to win addresses the key drivers of our business and results people, products, place, price and promotion. the quality of our execution depends mainly on the following: our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to trends or other factors that affect the ieo segment and our competitive position in the diverse markets we serve, such as spending patterns, demographic changes, trends in food preparation, consumer preferences and publicity about us, all of which can drive popular perceptions of our business or affect the willingness of other companies to enter into site, supply or other arrangements or alliances with us; the risks associated with our franchise business model, including whether our franchisees and developmental licensees will have the experience and financial resources to be effective operators and remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive initiatives and the potential impact on us if they experience food safety or other operational problems or project a brand image inconsistent with our values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited by local law or otherwise, costly to exercise or subject to litigation; our ability to drive restaurant improvements that achieve optimal capacity, particularly during peak mealtime hours, and to motivate our restaurant personnel and our franchisees to achieve consistency and high service levels so as to improve consumer perceptions of our ability to meet expectations for quality food served in clean and friendly environments; whether our restaurant reimaging and rebuilding plans, which remain a priority, are targeted at the elements of the restaurant experience that will best accomplish our goals and whether we can complete our plans as and when projected; the costs and operational risks associated with our increasing reliance on information technology (including our point-of-sale and other in-store technology systems or platforms), including the risk that we will not realize fully the benefits of our investments in technology, which we are accelerating, as well as the potential for system failures, programming errors or breaches of security involving our systems or those of third-party operators of our systems; the success of our initiatives to support menu choice, physical activity and nutritional awareness and to address these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that communicates our values effectively and inspires trust and confidence; our ability to respond effectively to adverse perceptions about the quick-service category of the ieo segment or about our products (including their nutritional content), promotions and premiums, such as happy meals (collectively, our products), how we source the commodities we use, and our ability to manage the potential impact on mcdonald of food-borne illnesses or product safety issues; mcdonald corporation annual report 2011 3 table of contents the impact of social media and other mobile communications or photo applications that can be used to promote adverse perceptions of our operations or those of our suppliers, or to promote or threaten boycotts or other actions involving us or our suppliers, with significantly greater speed and scope than traditional media outlets; the success of our tiered approach to menu offerings and our ability to introduce new offerings, as well as the impact of our competitors actions, including in response to our menu changes, and our ability to continue robust menu development and manage the complexity of our restaurant operations; our ability to differentiate the mcdonald experience in a way that balances consumer value with margin expansion, particularly in markets where pricing or cost pressures are significant or have been exacerbated by the current challenging economic and operating environment; the impact of pricing, marketing and promotional plans on sales and margins and our ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly to changing economic conditions; the impact of events such as boycotts or protests, labor strikes and supply chain interruptions (including due to lack of supply or price increases) that can adversely affect us directly or adversely affect the vendors, franchisees and others that are also part of the mcdonald system and whose performance has a material impact on our results; our ability to recruit and retain qualified local personnel to manage our operations and growth, particularly in certain developing markets; and our ability to leverage promotional or operating successes in individual markets into other markets in a timely and cost-effective way. our results and financial condition are affected by global and local market conditions, which can adversely affect our sales, margins and net income. our results of operations are substantially affected not only by global economic conditions, but also by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. unfavorable conditions can depress sales in a given market or daypart (e.g., breakfast). to mitigate the impact of these conditions, we may take promotional or other actions that adversely affect our margins, limit our operating flexibility or result in charges or restaurant closings. some macroeconomic conditions have an even more wide-ranging and prolonged impact. the current environment has been characterized by weak economies, persistently high unemployment rates, inflationary pressures and extreme volatility in financial markets worldwide, which has been exacerbated by the significant uncertainty associated with the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in certain eurozone countries. this environment has adversely affected both business and consumer confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity. these unfavorable conditions are expected to persist for the foreseeable future in many of our most important markets. the key factors that can affect our operations, plans and results in this environment are the following: whether our strategies will be effective in enabling the continued market share gains that we have included in our plans, while at the same time enabling us to achieve our targeted operating income growth, despite the uncertain economic outlook, resurgent competitors and a more costly and competitive advertising environment; the effectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and sufficient product supply on favorable terms; the impact on consumer disposable income levels and spending habits of governmental actions to manage national economic matters, whether through austerity or stimulus measures and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, taxation and other economic drivers; the impact on restaurant sales and margins of recent volatility in commodity and gasoline prices, which we expect will continue and may be exacerbated by current events in the middle east, and the impact of pricing, hedging and other actions that we, franchisees and suppliers may take to address this environment; the impact on our margins of labor costs given our labor-intensive business model, the long-term trend toward higher wages in both mature and developing markets and any potential impact of union organizing efforts; the impact of foreign exchange and interest rates on our financial condition and results; whether we are able to identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our plans for net growth of systemwide restaurants from year to year, and whether new sites are as profitable as expected; the challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment; the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings; and the impact of changes in our debt levels on our credit ratings, interest expense, availability of acceptable counterparties, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our operating or financial flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants. increasing legal and regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in material ways. in many of our markets, including the united states and europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. in developing markets, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following: the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, especially in the united states where inconsistent standards 4 mcdonald corporation annual report 2011 table of contents imposed by local, state and federal authorities can adversely affect popular perceptions of our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings; the impact of new, potential or changing regulation that can affect our business plans, such as those relating to marketing and the content and safety of our food and other products, as well as the risks and costs of our labeling and other disclosure practices, particularly given varying legal requirements and practices for testing and disclosure within our industry, ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers; the impact of nutritional, health and other scientific inquiries and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, but nonetheless drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation, including taxation, in ways that could be material to our business; the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of increased focus by u.s. and overseas governmental authorities and non-governmental organizations on environmental matters, such as environmental sustainability, climate change, greenhouse gases and water consumption, including initiatives that effectively impose a tax on carbon emissions; the impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets, including class actions, labor and employment claims, landlord/tenant disputes and intellectual property claims (including often aggressive or opportunistic attempts to enforce patents used in information technology systems); the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; the cost and other effects of settlements or judgments, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products; and the scope and terms of insurance or indemnification protections that we may have; adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; the increasing costs and other effects of compliance with u.s. and overseas regulations affecting our workforce and labor practices, including regulations relating to wage and hour practices, immigration, healthcare, retirement and other employee benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination; disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market that can result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or import-export controls, increased tariffs or government-mandated closure of our or our vendors operations, and the cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or proceedings, whether or not they have merit; the legal and compliance risks associated with information technology, such as the costs of compliance with privacy, consumer protection and other laws, the potential costs associated with alleged security breaches (including the loss of consumer confidence that may result and the risk of criminal penalties or civil liability to consumers or employees whose data is alleged to have been collected or used inappropriately) and potential challenges to the associated intellectual property rights or to our use of that intellectual property; and the impact of changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or related authoritative interpretations), particularly if corporate tax reform becomes a key component of budgetary initiatives in the united states and elsewhere, and the impact of settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by the irs or other taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. the trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors. many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. the most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following: the continuing unfavorable global economic and extremely volatile market conditions; governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the united states which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business; changes in financial or tax reporting and accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results and investor perceptions of our performance; trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can reflect market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete in some cases) or expectations about our business, our creditworthiness or investor confidence generally; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which mcdonald may be included, such as the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial average; the impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and the impact on our results of other corporate actions, such as those we may take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure in light of business, legal and tax considerations. our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others. severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels or other factors that affect our results and mcdonald corporation annual report 2011 5 table of contents prospects, such as commodity costs. our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in part ii, item 7, page 22 of the form 10-k.